---------------------------
ALLIES OF HUMANITY – BOOK 1
---------------------------




1–1: The Extraterrestrial Presence in the World Today


It is a great honor for us to be able to present this information to all of you who are fortunate enough to hear this message. We are the Allies of Humanity. This transmission is being made possible by the presence of the Unseen Ones, the spiritual counselors who oversee the development of intelligent life both within your world and throughout the Greater Community of worlds.

We are not communicating through any mechanical device, but through a spiritual channel that is free from interference. Though we live in the physical, as do you, we are given the privilege to communicate in this way in order to deliver the information that we must share with you.

We represent a small group who are observing the events of your world. We come from the Greater Community. We do not interfere in human affairs. We have no establishment here. We have been sent for a very specific purpose — to witness the events that are occurring in your world and, given the opportunity to do so, to communicate to you what we see and what we know. For you live on the surface of your world and cannot see the affairs that surround it. Nor can you see clearly the visitation that is occurring in your world at this time or what it portends for your future.

We would like to give testimony to this. We are doing so at the request of the Unseen Ones, for we have been sent for this purpose. The information that we are about to impart to you may seem very challenging and startling. It is perhaps unexpected by many who will hear this message. We understand this difficulty, for we have had to face this within our own cultures.

As you hear the information, it may be difficult to accept at first, but it is vital for all who would seek to make a contribution in the world.

For many years we have been observing the affairs of your world. We seek no relations with humanity. We are not here on a diplomatic mission. We have been sent by the Unseen Ones to live in the proximity of your world in order to observe the events we are about to describe.

Our names are not important. They would be meaningless to you. And we shall not impart them for our own safety, for we must remain hidden in order that we may serve.

To begin, it is necessary for people everywhere to understand that humanity is emerging into a Greater Community of intelligent life. Your world is being “visited” by several alien races and by several different organizations of races. This has been actively going on for some time. There have been visitations throughout human history, but nothing of this magnitude. The advent of nuclear weapons and the destruction of your natural world have brought these forces to your shores.

There are many people in the world today, we understand, who are beginning to realize that this is occurring. And we understand as well that there are many interpretations of this visitation — what it could mean and what it could offer. And many of the people who are aware of these things are very hopeful and anticipate a great benefit for humanity. We understand. It is natural to expect this. It is natural to be hopeful.

The visitation in your world now is very extensive, so much so that people in all parts of the world are witnessing it and are experiencing its effects directly. What has brought these “visitors” from the Greater Community, these different organizations of beings, is not to promote the advancement of humanity or the spiritual education of humanity. What has brought these forces to your shores in such numbers with such intention are the resources of your world.

This we understand may be difficult to accept at first because you cannot yet appreciate how beautiful your world is, how much it possesses and what a rare jewel it is in a Greater Community of barren worlds and empty space. Worlds such as yours are rare indeed. Most places in the Greater Community that are inhabited now have been colonized, and technology has made this possible. But worlds such as yours where life has evolved naturally, without the aid of technology, are far more rare than you might realize. Others take great notice of this, of course, for the biological resources of your world have been used by several races for millennia. It is considered a storehouse for some. And yet the development of human culture and dangerous weapons and the deterioration of these resources have caused the alien Intervention.


Perhaps you might wonder why diplomatic efforts are not established to contact the leaders of humanity. This is reasonable to ask, but the difficulty here is that there is no one to represent humanity, for your people are divided, and your nations oppose one another. It is also assumed by these visitors that we speak of that you are warlike and aggressive and that you would bring harm and hostility to the universe around you despite your good qualities.

Therefore, in our discourse we want to give you an idea of what is occurring, what it will mean for humanity and how it is related to your spiritual development, your social development and your future in the world and in the Greater Community of worlds itself.

People are unaware of the presence of alien forces, unaware of the presence of resource explorers, of those who would seek an alliance with humanity for their own benefit. Perhaps we should begin here by giving you an idea of what life is like beyond your shores, for you have not journeyed afar and cannot account for these things yourself.

You live in a part of the galaxy that is quite inhabited. Not all parts of the galaxy are so inhabited. There are great unexplored regions. There are many hidden races. Trade and commerce between worlds are only carried on in certain areas. The environment that you will emerge into is a very competitive one. The need for resources is experienced everywhere, and many technological societies have outstripped their world’s natural resources and must trade, barter and travel to gain what they need. It is a very complicated situation. Many alliances are formed and conflicts do occur.

Perhaps at this point it is necessary to realize that the Greater Community into which you are emerging is a difficult environment and a challenging one, and yet it brings great opportunity and great possibilities for humanity. However, for these possibilities and these advantages to be realized, humanity must prepare and come to learn what life in the universe is like. And it must come to understand what spirituality means within a Greater Community of intelligent life.

We understand from our own history that this is the greatest threshold that any world will ever face. It is not something, however, that you can plan for yourself. It is not something that you can design for your own future. For the very forces that would bring the Greater Community reality here are already present in the world. Circumstances have brought them here. They are here.

Perhaps this gives you an idea of what life is like beyond your borders. We do not want to create an idea that is fearful, but it is necessary for your own well-being and for your future that you have an honest appraisal and can come to see these things clearly.

The need to prepare for life in the Greater Community, we feel, is the greatest need there is in your world today. And yet, from our observation, people are preoccupied with their own affairs and their own problems in their daily lives, unaware of the greater forces that will change their destiny and affect their future.

The forces and groups who are here today represent several different alliances. These different alliances are not united with each other in their efforts. Each alliance represents several different racial groups who are collaborating for the purpose of gaining access to your world’s resources and maintaining this access. These different alliances are, in essence, competing with each other though they are not at war with one another. They see your world as a great prize, something they want to have for themselves.

This creates a very great challenge for your people, for the forces who are visiting you not only have advanced technology, but also strong social cohesion and are able to influence thought in the mental environment. You see, in the Greater Community, technology is easily acquired, and so the great advantage between competing societies is the ability to influence thought. This has taken on very sophisticated demonstrations. It represents a set of skills that humanity is only beginning to discover.

As a result, your visitors do not come armed with great weapons or with armies or with armadas of vessels. They come in relatively small groups, but they possess considerable skill in influencing people. This represents a more sophisticated and mature use of power in the Greater Community. It is this ability that humanity will have to cultivate in the future if it is to contend with other races successfully.

The visitors are here to gain humanity’s allegiance. They do not want to destroy human establishments or the human presence. Instead, they wish to use these for their own benefit. Their intention is employment, not destruction. They feel that they are in the right because they believe that they are saving the world. Some even believe that they are saving humanity from itself. But this perspective does not serve your greater interests, nor does it foster wisdom or self-determination within the human family.

Yet because there are forces of good within the Greater Community of Worlds, you have allies. We represent the voice of your allies, the Allies of Humanity. We are not here to use your resources or to take from you what you possess. We do not seek to establish humanity as a client state or as a colony for our own use. Instead, we wish to foster strength and wisdom within humanity because we support this throughout the Greater Community.

Our role, then, is quite essential, and our information is very needed because at this time even people who are aware of the presence of the visitors are not yet aware of their intentions. People do not understand the visitors’ methods. And they do not comprehend the visitors’ ethics or morality. People think the visitors are either angels or monsters. But in reality, they are very much like you in their needs. If you could see the world through their eyes, you would understand their consciousness and their motivation. But to do that, you would have to venture beyond your own.

The visitors are engaged in four fundamental activities in order to gain influence within your world. Each of these activities is unique, but they are all coordinated together. They are being carried out because humanity has been studied for a long time. Human thought, human behavior, human physiology and human religion have been studied for some time. These are well understood by your visitors and will be used for their own purposes.


The first area of activity of the visitors is to influence individuals in positions of power and authority. Because the visitors do not want to destroy anything in the world or harm the world’s resources, they seek to gain influence over those whom they perceive to be in positions of power, within government and religion primarily. They seek contact, but only with certain individuals. They have the power to make this contact, and they have the power of persuasion. Not all whom they contact will be persuaded, but many will be. The promise of greater power, greater technology and world domination will intrigue and incite many individuals. And it is these individuals with whom the visitors will seek to establish a liaison.

There are very few people in the governments of the world who are being so affected, but their numbers are growing. The visitors understand the hierarchy of power because they themselves live by it, following their own chain of command, you might say. They are highly organized and very focused in their endeavors, and the idea of having cultures full of free-thinking individuals is largely foreign to them. They do not comprehend or understand individual freedom. They are like many technologically advanced societies in the Greater Community who function both within their respective worlds and in their establishments across vast reaches of space, utilizing a very well-established and rigid form of government and organization. They believe that humanity is chaotic and unruly, and they feel they are bringing order to a situation that they cannot themselves comprehend. Individual freedom is unknown to them, and they do not see its value. As a result, what they seek to establish in the world will not honor this freedom.

Therefore, their first area of endeavor is to establish a liaison with individuals in positions of power and influence in order to gain their allegiance and to persuade them of the beneficial aspects of relationship and shared purpose.

The second avenue of activity, which is perhaps the most difficult to consider from your perspective, is the manipulation of religious values and impulses. The visitors understand that humanity’s greatest abilities also represent its greatest vulnerability. People’s longing for individual redemption represents one of the greatest assets the human family has to offer, even to the Greater Community. But it is also your weakness. And it is these impulses and these values that will be used.

Several groups of the visitors wish to establish themselves as spiritual agents because they know how to speak in the mental environment. They can communicate to people directly, and unfortunately, because there are very few people in the world who can discern the difference between a spiritual voice and the visitors’ voice, the situation becomes very difficult.

Therefore, the second area of activity is to gain people’s allegiance through their religious and spiritual motivations. Actually, this can be done quite easily because humanity is not yet strong or developed in the mental environment. It is difficult for people to discern where these impulses are coming from. Many people want to give themselves to anything they think has a greater voice and a greater power. Your visitors can project images — images of your saints, of your teachers, of angels — images that are held dear and sacred within your world. They have cultivated this ability through many, many centuries of attempting to influence each other and by learning the ways of persuasion that are practiced in many places in the Greater Community. They consider you primitive, and so they feel they can exert this influence and use these methods upon you.

Here there is an attempt to contact those individuals who are considered sensitive, receptive and naturally given to be cooperative. Many people will be selected, but a few will be chosen based upon these particular qualities. Your visitors will seek to gain allegiance with these individuals, to gain their trust and to gain their devotion, telling the recipients that the visitors are here to uplift humanity spiritually, to give humanity new hope, new blessings and new power — indeed promising the things that people want so dearly but have not yet found themselves. Perhaps you may wonder, “How can such a thing occur?” But we can assure you that it is not difficult once you learn these skills and abilities.

The effort here is to pacify and to reeducate people through spiritual persuasion. This “Pacification Program” is used differently with different religious groups depending upon their ideals and their temperament. It is always aimed at receptive individuals. Here it is hoped that people will lose their sense of discernment and will become wholly trusting of the greater power that they feel is being given to them by the visitors. Once this allegiance is established, it becomes increasingly difficult for people to discern what they know within themselves from what is being told to them. It is a very subtle but very pervasive form of persuasion and manipulation. We shall speak more on this as we proceed.

Let us now mention the third area of activity, which is to establish the visitors’ presence in the world and to have people become used to this presence. They want humanity to become acclimated to this very great change that is occurring in your midst — to have you become acclimated to the visitors’ physical presence and to their effect on your own mental environment. To serve this purpose, they will create establishments here, though not in view. These establishments will be hidden, but they will be very powerful in casting an influence on human populations that are near them. The visitors will take great care and time to make sure that these establishments are effective and that enough people are in allegiance to them. It is these people who will guard and preserve the visitors’ presence.

This is exactly what is occurring in your world at this time. It represents a great challenge and unfortunately a great risk. This very same thing that we are describing has happened so many times in so many places in the Greater Community. And emerging races such as your own are always the most vulnerable. Some emerging races are able to establish their own awareness, ability and cooperation to the extent that they can offset outside influences such as these and establish a presence and a position in the Greater Community. Yet many races, before they even attain this freedom, fall under the control and influence of foreign powers.

We understand that this information may incite considerable fear and perhaps denial or confusion. But as we observe events, we realize that there are very few people who are aware of the situation as it actually exists. Even those people who are becoming aware of the presence of alien forces are not in a position and do not have the vantage point from which they can see the situation clearly. And being ever hopeful and optimistic, they seek to give this great phenomenon as much positive meaning as they can.

However, the Greater Community is a competitive environment, a difficult environment. Those who engage in space travel do not necessarily represent the spiritually advanced, for those who are spiritually advanced seek insulation from the Greater Community. They do not seek commerce. They do not seek to influence other races or to engage in the very complex array of relationships that are established for mutual trade and benefit. Instead, the spiritually advanced seek to remain hidden. This is a very different understanding, perhaps, but a necessary one for you to come to comprehend the great predicament that humanity is facing. Yet this predicament holds great possibilities. We would like to speak about these now.

Despite the gravity of the situation that we are describing, we do not feel that these circumstances are a tragedy for humanity. Indeed, if these circumstances can be recognized and understood, and if the preparation for the Greater Community, which now exists in the world, can be utilized, studied and applied, then people everywhere of good conscience will have the ability to learn Greater Community Knowledge and Wisdom. Thus, people everywhere will be able to find the basis for cooperation so that the human family can finally establish a unity that has never been established here before. For it will take the overshadowing of the Greater Community to unite humanity. And this overshadowing is occurring now.

It is your evolution to emerge into a Greater Community of intelligent life. It will happen whether you are prepared or not. It must occur. Preparation, then, becomes the key. Understanding and clarity — these are the things that are necessary and needed in your world at this time.

People everywhere have great spiritual gifts that can enable them to see and to know clearly. These gifts are needed now. They need to be recognized, employed and shared freely. It is not merely up to a great teacher or a great saint in your world to do this. It must be cultivated by many more people now. For the situation brings with it necessity, and if necessity can be embraced, it brings with it great opportunity.

However, the requirements to learn about the Greater Community and to begin to experience Greater Community Spirituality are tremendous. Never before have human beings had to learn such things in such a short period of time. Indeed, such things have rarely been learned ever by anyone in your world before. But now the need has changed. The circumstances are different. Now there are new influences in your midst, influences that you can feel and that you can know.

The visitors seek to disable people from having this vision and this Knowledge within themselves, for your visitors do not have it within themselves. They do not see its value. They do not understand its reality. In this, humanity as a whole is more advanced than they are. But this is only a potential, a potential which must now be cultivated.

The alien presence in the world is growing. It is growing every day, every year. Many more people are falling under its persuasion, losing their ability to know, becoming confused and distracted, believing in things that can only weaken them and make them impotent in the face of those who would seek to use them for their own purposes.

Humanity is an emerging race. It is vulnerable. It is facing a set of circumstances and influences now which it has never had to face before. You have only evolved to compete with each other. You have never had to compete with other forms of intelligent life. Yet it is this competition that will strengthen you and will call forth your greatest attributes if the situation can be clearly seen and understood.

It is the role of the Unseen Ones to foster this strength. The Unseen Ones, whom you would rightly call angels, do not only speak to the human heart but to hearts everywhere who are able to listen and who have gained the freedom to listen.

We come, then, with a difficult message, but a message of promise and hope. Perhaps it is not the message that people want to hear. It is certainly not the message that the visitors would promote. It is a message that can be shared from person to person, and it will be shared because it is natural to do so. Yet the visitors and those who have come under their persuasion will oppose such an awareness. They do not want to see an independent humanity. That is not their purpose. They do not even believe it is beneficial. Therefore, it is our sincere desire that these ideas be considered without trepidation, but with a serious mind and a deep concern that are well justified here.


There are many people in the world today, we understand, who feel that a great change is coming for humanity. The Unseen Ones have told us these things. Many causes are attributed to this sense of change. And many outcomes are predicted. Yet unless you can begin to comprehend the reality that humanity is emerging into a Greater Community of intelligent life, you do not yet have the right context for understanding the destiny of humanity or the great change that is occurring in the world.

From our perspective, people are born into their time to serve that time. This is a teaching in Greater Community Spirituality, a teaching of which we are students as well. It teaches freedom and the power of shared purpose. It grants authority to the individual and to the individual who can join with others — ideas which are rarely accepted or adopted in the Greater Community, for the Greater Community is not the heavenly state. It is a physical reality with the rigors of survival and all that that entails. All beings within this reality must contend with these needs and issues. And in this, your visitors are more like you than you realize. They are not incomprehensible. They would seek to be incomprehensible, but they can be understood. You have the power to do this, but you must see with clear eyes. You must see with a greater vision and know with a greater intelligence, which you have the possibility to cultivate within yourselves.

It is necessary for us now to speak more regarding the second area of influence and persuasion because this has great importance, and it is our sincere desire that you will understand these things and consider them for yourself.

The religions of the world hold the key to human dedication and human allegiance, more than governments, more than any other institution. This speaks well for humanity because religions such as these are often hard to find in the Greater Community. Your world is rich in this respect, but your strength is also where you are weak and vulnerable. Many people want to be divinely guided and appointed, to give over the reins of their own lives and to have a greater spiritual power direct them, counsel them and preserve them. This is a genuine desire, but within a Greater Community context, considerable wisdom must be cultivated in order for this desire to be fulfilled. It is very sad for us to see how people will give their authority away so easily — something they have never even fully had, they will give away willingly to those who are unknown to them.

This message is destined to reach people who have a greater spiritual affinity. Therefore, it is necessary that we elaborate on this subject. We advocate a spirituality that is taught in the Greater Community, not the spirituality that is governed by nations, governments or political alliances, but a natural spirituality — the ability to know, to see and to act. And yet this is not emphasized by your visitors. They seek to have people believe that the visitors are their family, that the visitors are their home, that the visitors are their brothers and sisters, their mothers and fathers. Many people want to believe, and so they believe. People want to give over their personal authority, and so it is given over. People want to see friends and salvation in the visitors, and so this is what they are shown.

It will take great sobriety and objectivity in order to see through these deceptions and these difficulties. It will be necessary for people to do this if humanity is to successfully emerge into the Greater Community and maintain its freedom and its self-determination in an environment of greater influences and greater forces. In this, your world could be overtaken without firing a shot, for violence is considered primitive and crude and is rarely employed in matters such as this.

Perhaps you may ask, “Does this mean that there is an invasion of our world?” We must say that the answer to this is “yes,” an invasion of the most subtle kind. If you can entertain these thoughts and consider them seriously, you will be able to see these things for yourself. The evidence of this invasion is everywhere. You can see how human ability is offset by the desire for happiness, peace and security, how people’s vision and ability to know are hampered by influences even within their own cultures. How much greater these influences will be within a Greater Community environment.

This is the difficult message that we must present. This is the message that must be said, the truth that must be spoken, the truth that is vital and cannot wait. It is so necessary for people now to learn a greater Knowledge, a greater Wisdom and a greater Spirituality so that they may find their true abilities and be able to use them effectively.

Your freedom is at stake. The future of your world is at stake. It is because of this that we have been sent here to speak for the Allies of Humanity. There are those in the universe who are keeping Knowledge and Wisdom alive and who practice a Greater Community Spirituality. They do not travel all about, casting influence over different worlds. They do not take people against their will. They do not steal your animals and your plants. They do not cast influence over your governments. They do not seek to breed with humanity in order to create a new leadership here. Your allies do not interfere in human affairs. They do not manipulate human destiny. They watch from afar and they send emissaries such as ourselves, at great risk to us, to give counsel and encouragement and to clarify things when that becomes necessary. We, therefore, come in peace with a vital message.

Now we must speak of the fourth area in which your visitors seek to establish themselves, and that is through interbreeding. They cannot live in your environment. They need your physical stamina. They need your natural affinity with the world. They need your reproductive abilities. They also want to bond with you because they understand that this creates allegiance. This, in a way, establishes their presence here because the offspring of such a program will have blood relations in the world and yet will have allegiance to the visitors. Perhaps this seems incredible, yet it is so very real.

The visitors are not here to take your reproductive abilities away from you. They are here to establish themselves. They want humanity to believe in them and to serve them. They want humanity to work for them. They will promise anything, offer anything and do anything to achieve this goal. Yet though their persuasion is great, their numbers are small. But their influence is growing and their program of interbreeding, which has been underway for several generations, will eventually be effective. There will be human beings of greater intelligence but who do not represent the human family. Such things are possible and have occurred countless times in the Greater Community. You have only to look at your own history to see the impact of cultures and races upon one another and to see how dominating and how influential these interactions can be.

Thus, we bring with us important news, serious news. But you must take heart, for this is not a time for ambivalence. This is not a time to seek escape. This is not a time to concern yourself with your own happiness. This is a time to contribute to the world, to strengthen the human family and to call forth those natural abilities that exist in people — the ability to see, to know and to act in harmony with one another. These abilities can offset the influence that is being cast upon humanity at this time, but these abilities must grow and be shared. It is of the utmost importance.

This is our counsel. It comes with good intentions. Be glad that you have allies in the Greater Community, for allies you will need.

You are entering a greater universe, filled with forces and influences that you have not yet learned how to counteract. You are entering a greater panorama of life. And you must prepare for this. Our words are but part of the preparation. A preparation is being sent into the world now. It does not come from us. It comes from the Creator of all life. It comes at just the right time. For this is the time for humanity to become strong and wise. You have the ability to do this. And the events and circumstances of your life create a great need for this.




1–2: The Challenge to Human Freedom


Humanity is approaching a very dangerous and very important time in its collective development. You are on the verge of emerging into a Greater Community of intelligent life. You will be encountering other races of beings who are coming to your world seeking to protect their interests and to discover what opportunities may lie ahead. They are not angels or angelic beings. They are not spiritual entities. They are beings who are coming to your world for resources, for alliances and to gain an advantage in an emerging world. They are not evil. They are not holy. In that, they are also much like you. They are simply driven by their needs, their associations, their beliefs and their collective goals.

This is a very great time for humanity, but humanity is not prepared. From our vantage point, we can see this on a larger scale. We do not involve ourselves with the daily lives of individuals in the world. We do not attempt to persuade governments or to lay claim to certain parts of the world or to certain resources that exist here. Instead, we observe, and we wish to report what we observe, for this is our mission in being here.

The Unseen Ones have told us that there are many people today who feel a strange discomfort, a sense of vague urgency, a feeling that something is going to happen and that something must be done. Perhaps there is nothing within their daily sphere of experience that justifies these deeper feelings, that verifies the importance of these feelings, or that gives substance to their expression. We can understand this because we have been through similar things ourselves in our own histories. We represent several races joined together in our small alliance to support the emergence of Knowledge and Wisdom in the universe, particularly with races that are on the threshold of emerging into the Greater Community. These emerging races are particularly vulnerable to foreign influence and manipulation. They are particularly vulnerable to misunderstanding their situation and understandably so, for how could they comprehend the meaning and the complexity of life within the Greater Community? That is why we wish to play our small part in preparing and in educating humanity.

In our first discourse, we gave a broad description of the visitors’ involvement in four areas. The first area is the influence on important people in positions of power in governments and at the head of religious institutions. The second area of influence is on people who have a spiritual inclination and who wish to open themselves to the greater powers that exist in the universe. The third area of involvement is the visitors’ building of establishments in the world in strategic locations, near population centers, where their influence on the mental environment can be exercised. And lastly, we spoke of their program of interbreeding with humanity, a program which has been underway for quite some time.

We understand how troubling this news may be and perhaps how disappointing it may be to many people who had high hopes and expectations that visitors from beyond would bring blessings and great benefit to humanity. It is natural perhaps to assume and to expect these things, but the Greater Community into which humanity is emerging is a difficult and competitive environment, particularly in areas in the universe where many different races compete with each other and interact for trade and commerce. Your world exists in such an area. This may seem incredible to you because it has always seemed that you lived in isolation, alone within the vast emptiness of space. But really you live in an inhabited part of the universe where trade and commerce have been established and where traditions, interactions and associations are all longstanding. And to your benefit, you live in a beautiful world — a world of great biological diversity, a splendid place in contrast to the starkness of so many other worlds.

However, this also gives your situation great urgency and poses a genuine risk, for you possess what many others want for themselves. They do not seek to destroy you but to gain your allegiance and your alliance so that your existence in the world and your activities here can be for their benefit. You are emerging into a mature and complicated set of circumstances. Here you cannot be like little children and believe and hope for the blessings of all whom you may encounter. You must become wise and discerning, as we, through our difficult histories, have had to become wise and discerning. Now humanity will have to learn about the ways of the Greater Community, about the intricacies of interaction between races, about the complexities of trade and about the subtle manipulations of associations and alliances that are established between worlds. It is a difficult but important time for humanity, a time of great promise if true preparation can be undertaken.

In this, our second discourse, we would like to speak in greater detail about the intervention into human affairs by various groups of visitors, what this may mean for you and what this will require. We come not to incite fear but to provoke a sense of responsibility, to engender a greater awareness and to encourage preparation for the life that you are entering into, a greater life but a life with greater problems and challenges as well.

We have been sent here through the spiritual power and presence of the Unseen Ones. Perhaps you will think of them in a friendly way as angels, but in the Greater Community their role is greater and their involvement and their alliances are deep and penetrating. Their spiritual power is here to bless sentient beings in all worlds and in all places and to promote the development of the deeper Knowledge and Wisdom that will make possible the peaceful emergence of relations, both between worlds and within worlds. We are here on their behalf. They have asked us to come. And they have given us much of the information that we have, information that we could not collect ourselves. From them we have learned a great deal about your nature. We have learned a great deal about your abilities, your strengths, your weaknesses and your great vulnerability. We can comprehend these things because the worlds that we have come from have passed through this great threshold of emergence into the Greater Community. We have learned a great deal, and we have suffered much from our own mistakes, mistakes that we hope humanity will avoid.

We come then not only with our own experience, but with a deeper awareness and a deeper sense of purpose that has been given to us by the Unseen Ones. We observe your world from a location nearby, and we monitor the communications of those who are visiting you. We know who they are. We know where they come from and why they are here. We do not compete with them, for we are not here to exploit the world. We consider ourselves to be the Allies of Humanity, and we hope in time that you will consider us to be such, for such we are. And though we cannot prove this, we hope to demonstrate this through our words and through the wisdom of our counsel. We hope to prepare you for what lies ahead. We come in our mission with a sense of urgency, for humanity is way behind in its preparation for the Greater Community. Many earlier attempts decades ago to make contact with human beings and to prepare human beings for their future proved to be unsuccessful. Only a few people could be reached, and as we have been told, many of these contacts were misconstrued and were used by others for different purposes.

Therefore, we have been sent in the place of those who came before us to offer help to humanity. We work together in our united cause. We do not represent a great military power but more a secret and holy alliance. We do not want to see the kind of affairs that exist in the Greater Community perpetrated here within your world. We do not want to see humanity become a client state of a greater network of powers. We do not want to see humanity lose its freedom and its self-determination. These are real risks. Because of this, we encourage you to consider our words deeply, without fear, if that is possible, and with the kind of conviction and determination that we know resides in all human hearts.

Today and tomorrow and the day after, great activity is underway and will be underway to establish a network of influence over the human race by those who are visiting the world for their own purposes. They feel that they are coming here to save the world from humanity. Some even believe they are here to save humanity from itself. They feel that they are in the right and do not consider that their actions are inappropriate or unethical. According to their ethics, they are doing what is considered to be reasonable and important. However, for all freedom-loving beings, such an approach cannot be justified.

We observe the visitors’ activities, which are growing. Every year, there are more of them here. They are coming from afar. They are bringing supplies. They are deepening their engagement and involvement. They are establishing stations of communication in many places in your solar system. They are observing all of your initial forays into space, and they will counter and destroy anything that they feel will interfere with their activities. They are seeking to establish control not only of your world but of the area around your world. This is because there are competing forces here. Each represents the alliance of several races.

Now let us address the last of the four areas that we spoke of in our first discourse. This has to do with the visitors interbreeding with the human species. Let us give you a bit of history first. Many thousands of years ago, in your time, several races came to interbreed with humanity to give humanity a greater intelligence and adaptability. This led to the rather sudden emergence of what we understand is called “Modern Man.” This has given you dominance and power in your world. This occurred long ago.

However, the interbreeding program that is occurring now is not the same at all. It is being undertaken by a different set of beings and by different alliances. Through interbreeding, they are seeking to establish a human being who will be part of their association yet who can survive within your world and who can have a natural affinity with the world. Your visitors cannot live on the surface of your world. They must either seek shelter underground, which they are doing, or they must live aboard their own craft, which they often keep hidden in large bodies of water. They want to interbreed with humanity to protect their interests here, which are primarily the resources of your world. They want to have human allegiance assured, and so for several generations they have been involved in an interbreeding program, which within the last twenty years has become quite extensive.

Their purpose is twofold. First, as we have mentioned, the visitors want to create a human-like being who can live within your world but who will be bonded to them and who will have a greater set of sensitivities and abilities. The second purpose of this program is to influence all those that they encounter and to encourage people to assist them in their undertaking. The visitors want and need human assistance. This furthers their program in all respects. They consider you valuable. However, they do not consider you to be their peers or their equals. Useful, that is how you are perceived. So, in all whom they will encounter, in all whom they will take, the visitors will seek to engender this sense of their superiority, their value and the worth and the significance of their endeavors in the world. The visitors will tell all whom they contact that they are here for the good, and they will assure those that they have captured that they need not fear. And with those who seem particularly receptive, they will attempt to establish alliances — a shared sense of purpose, even a shared sense of identity and family, of heritage and destiny.

In their program, the visitors have studied human physiology and psychology very extensively, and they will take advantage of what people want, particularly those things that people want but have not been able to gain for themselves, such as peace and order, beauty and tranquility. These will be offered and some people will believe. Others will simply be used as is needed.

Here it is necessary to understand that the visitors believe that this is entirely appropriate in order to preserve the world. They feel that they are doing humanity a great service, and so they are wholehearted in their persuasions. Unfortunately, this demonstrates a great truth about the Greater Community — that true Wisdom and true Knowledge are as rare in the universe as they must seem within your world. It is natural for you to hope and to expect that other races have outgrown deviousness, selfish pursuits, competition and conflict. But, alas, this is not the case. Greater technology does not raise the mental and spiritual strength of individuals.

Today there are many people who are being taken against their will repeatedly. Because humanity is very superstitious and seeks to deny things that it cannot understand, this unfortunate activity is being carried on with considerable success. Even now, there are hybrid individuals, part-human, part-alien, walking in your world. There are not many of them, but their numbers will grow in the future. Perhaps you will meet one some day. They will look the same as you but be different. You will think they are human beings, but something essential will seem to be missing in them, something that is valued within your world. It is possible to be able to discern and to identify these individuals, but in order to do so, you would have to become skilled in the mental environment and learn what Knowledge and Wisdom mean in the Greater Community.

We feel that learning this is of the utmost importance, for we see all that is happening in your world from our vantage point, and the Unseen Ones counsel us regarding things we cannot see or have access to. We understand these events, for they have happened countless times in the Greater Community, as influence and persuasion are cast upon races that are either too weak or too vulnerable to respond effectively.

We hope and we trust that none of you who may hear this message will think that these intrusions into human life are beneficial. Those who are being affected will be influenced to think that these encounters are beneficial, both for themselves and for the world. People’s spiritual aspirations, their desire for peace and harmony, family and inclusion will all be addressed by the visitors. These things that represent something so special about the human family are, without wisdom and preparation, a sign of your great vulnerability. Only those individuals who are strong with Knowledge and Wisdom could see the deception behind these persuasions. Only they are in a position to see the deception that is being perpetrated upon the human family. Only they can protect their minds against the influence that is being cast in the mental environment in so many places in the world today. Only they will see and know.

Our words will not be enough. Men and women must learn to see and to know. We can only encourage this. Our coming here to your world has occurred in accordance with the presentation of the teaching in Greater Community Spirituality, for the preparation is here now and that is why we can be a source of encouragement. If the preparation were not here, we would know that our admonitions and our encouragement would not be adequate and would not be successful. The Creator and the Unseen Ones want to prepare humanity for the Greater Community. In fact, this is the most important need of humanity at this time.

Therefore, we encourage you not to believe that the taking of human beings and their children and their families has any benefit for humanity at all. We must emphasize this. Your freedom is precious. Your individual freedom and your freedom as a race are precious. It has taken us so long to regain our freedom. We do not want to see you lose yours.

The interbreeding program that is occurring in the world will continue. The only way that it can be stopped is by people gaining this greater awareness and sense of inner authority. Only this will bring these intrusions to an end. Only this will uncover the deception behind them. It is hard for us to imagine how awful this must be for your people, for those men and women, for those little ones, who are undergoing this treatment, this re-education, this pacification. To our values, this seems abhorrent, and yet we know that these things occur in the Greater Community and have occurred since before memory.

Perhaps our words will generate more and more questions. This is healthy and this is natural, but we cannot answer all of your questions. You must find the means to gain the answers for yourselves. But you cannot do this without a preparation, and you cannot do this without an orientation. At this time, humanity as a whole, we understand, cannot differentiate between a Greater Community demonstration and a spiritual manifestation. This is truly a difficult situation because your visitors can project images, they can speak to people through the mental environment and their voices can be received and expressed through people. They can cast this kind of influence because humanity does not yet have this kind of skill or discernment.

Humanity is not united. It is broken apart. It is in contention with itself. This makes you extremely vulnerable to outside interference and manipulation. It is understood by your visitors that your spiritual desires and inclinations make you particularly vulnerable and particularly good subjects for their use. How difficult it is to gain true objectivity regarding these things. Even where we have come from, it has been a great challenge. But for those who wish to remain free and to exercise self-determination in the Greater Community, they must develop these skills, and they must preserve their own resources in order to avoid being required to seek them from others. If your world loses its self-sufficiency, it will lose much of its freedom. If you must go beyond your world to seek the resources you need to live, then you will lose much of your power to others. Because the resources of your world are rapidly diminishing, this is a grave concern for those of us who watch from afar. It is also of concern to your visitors, for they want to prevent the destruction of your environment, not for you but for them.

The interbreeding program has only one purpose, and that is to enable the visitors to establish a presence and a commanding influence within the world. Do not think that the visitors are lacking something that they need from you other than your resources. Do not think that they need your humanity. They only want your humanity to assure themselves of their position in the world. Do not be flattered. Do not indulge yourself in such thoughts. They are unwarranted. If you can learn to see the situation clearly as it really is, you will see and you will know these things for yourself. You will understand why we are here and why humanity needs allies in a Greater Community of intelligent life. And you will see the importance of learning greater Knowledge and Wisdom and of learning Greater Community Spirituality.

Because you are emerging into an environment where these things become vital for success, for freedom, for happiness and for strength, you will need greater Knowledge and Wisdom in order to establish yourselves as an independent race in the Greater Community. However, your independence is being lost with each passing day. And you may not see the loss of your freedom, though perhaps you may feel it in some way. How could you see it? You cannot go outside your world and witness the events that surround it. You do not have access to the political and commercial involvements of the alien forces operating in the world today to understand their complexity, their ethics or their values.

Never think that any race in the universe that travels for commerce is spiritually advanced. Those who seek commerce seek advantage. Those who travel from world to world, those who are resource explorers, those who seek to plant their own flags are not what you would consider to be spiritually advanced. We do not consider them to be spiritually advanced. There is worldly power, and there is spiritual power. You can understand the difference between these things, and now it is necessary to see this difference within a larger environment.

We come, then, with a sense of commitment and strong encouragement for you to maintain your freedom, to become strong and discerning and not to give in to persuasions or promises of peace, power and inclusion from those you do not know. And do not let yourself be comforted into thinking that all will turn out well for humanity or even for you personally, for this is not wisdom. For the wise in any place must learn to see the reality of life around them and learn to negotiate this life in a beneficial way.

Therefore, receive our encouragement. We shall speak again concerning these matters and illustrate the importance of gaining discernment and discretion. And we shall speak more about the involvement of your visitors in the world in areas that are very important for you to understand. We hope that you can receive our words.




1–3: A Great Warning


We have been anxious to speak more with you regarding the affairs of your world and to help you come to see, if possible, what we are seeing from our vantage point. We realize this is difficult to receive and will cause considerable anxiety and concern, but you must be informed.

The situation is very grave from our perspective, and we think it would be a tremendous misfortune if people were not informed correctly. There is so much deception in the world that you live in, and in many other worlds as well, that the truth, though apparent and obvious, goes unrecognized, and its signs and messages go undetected. We, therefore, hope that our presence can help clarify the picture and help you and others to see what is truly there. We do not have these compromises in our perception, for we were sent to witness the very things that we are describing.

Over time, perhaps you would be able to know these things on your own, but you do not have this kind of time. The time now is short. Humanity’s preparation for the appearance of forces from the Greater Community is far behind schedule. Many important people have not responded. And the intrusion into the world has accelerated at a far greater pace than was originally thought to be possible.

We come with little time to spare, and yet we come with encouragement for you to share this information. As we have indicated in our previous messages, the world is being infiltrated and the mental environment is being conditioned and prepared. The intention is not to eradicate human beings but to employ them, to have them become workers for a greater “collective.” The institutions of the world and most certainly the natural environment are valued, and it is the preference of the visitors that these be preserved for their use. They cannot live here, and so to gain your allegiance, they are employing many of the techniques that we have described. We will continue in our description to clarify these things.

Our arrival here has been thwarted by several factors, not the least of which is a lack of readiness of those whom we must reach directly. Our speaker, the author of this book, is the only one with whom we have been able to establish a firm contact, so we must give our speaker the fundamental information.

From the perspective of your visitors, as we have learned, the United States is considered the world leader, and so the greatest amount of emphasis will be placed here. But other major nations as well will be contacted, for they are recognized to hold power, and power is understood by the visitors, for they follow the dictates of power without question and to a much greater degree than is even apparent in your world.

Attempts will be made to persuade the leaders of the strongest nations to become receptive to the presence of the visitors and to receive gifts and inducements for cooperation with the promise of mutual benefit, and even the promise of world dominion to some. There will be those in the corridors of power in the world who will respond to these inducements, for they will think that there is a great opportunity here to take humanity beyond the specter of nuclear war into a new community upon the Earth, a community which they will lead for their own purposes. Yet these leaders are deceived, for they will not be given the keys to this realm. They will simply be the arbiters in the transition of power.

This you must understand. It is not so complex. From our perspective and vantage point, it is obvious. We have seen this occur elsewhere. It is one of the ways that established organizations of races who have their own collectives recruit emerging worlds such as yours. They believe firmly that their agenda is virtuous and for the betterment of your world, for humanity is not highly respected, and though you are virtuous in certain ways, your liabilities far outweigh your potential, from their perspective. We do not hold this view or we would not be in the position that we are in, and we would not be offering our services to you as the Allies of Humanity.

Therefore, there is a great difficulty now in discernment, a great challenge. The challenge is for humanity to understand who its allies really are and to be able to distinguish them from its potential adversaries. There are no neutral parties in this matter. The world is far too valuable, its resources recognized as being unique and of considerable worth. There are no neutral parties who are involved in human affairs. The true nature of the alien Intervention is to exert influence and control and eventually to establish dominion here.

We are not the visitors. We are observers. We claim no rights to your world, and we have no agenda to establish ourselves here. For this reason, our names are hidden, for we do not pursue relations with you beyond our ability to provide our counsel in this way. We cannot control the outcome. We can only advise you as to the choices and decisions that your people must make in light of these greater events.


Humanity has great promise and has cultivated a rich spiritual heritage, but it is without education regarding the Greater Community into which it is emerging. Humanity is divided and contentious within itself, thus making it vulnerable to manipulation and to intrusion from beyond your borders. Your peoples are preoccupied with the concerns of the day, but the reality of tomorrow is not recognized. What profit could you possibly gain by ignoring the greater movement of the world and by assuming that the Intervention that is occurring today is for your benefit? Surely there is not one amongst you who could say this if you but saw the reality of the situation.

In a way, it is a matter of perspective. We can see and you cannot, for you have not the vantage point. You would have to be beyond your world, outside the sphere of your world’s influence, to see what we are seeing. And yet, to see what we see, we must remain hidden because if we were discovered, we would surely perish. For your visitors consider their mission here to be of the utmost value, and they consider the Earth to be their greatest prospect among several others. They will not stop because of us. So it is your own freedom that you must value and that you must defend. We cannot do this for you.

Every world, if it seeks to establish its own unity, freedom and self-determination in the Greater Community, must establish this freedom and defend it if necessary. Otherwise, domination will certainly occur and will be complete.

Why do your visitors want your world? It is so very obvious. It is not you they are interested in particularly. It is the biological resources of your world. It is the strategic position of this solar system. You are useful to them only insofar as these things are valued and can be utilized. They will offer what you want and they will speak what you want to hear. They will offer inducements, and they will use your religions and your religious ideals to foster confidence and trust that they, more than you, understand the needs of your world and will be able to serve these needs to bring about a greater equanimity here. Because humanity seems incapable of establishing unity and order, many people will open their minds and their hearts to those whom they believe will have the greater possibility for doing so.

In the second discourse, we spoke briefly of the interbreeding program. Some have heard of this phenomenon, and we understand there has been some discussion about this. The Unseen Ones have told us that there is a growing awareness that such a program exists, but incredibly people cannot see the obvious implications, being so given to their preferences in the matter and so ill equipped to deal with what such an Intervention could mean. Clearly, an interbreeding program is an attempt to fuse humanity’s adaptation to the physical world with the visitors’ group mind and collective consciousness. Such offspring would be in a perfect position to provide the new leadership for humanity, a leadership that is born of the visitors’ intentions and the visitors’ campaign. These individuals would have blood relations in the world, and so others would be related to them and accepting of their presence. And yet their minds would not be with you, nor their hearts. And though they may feel sympathy for you in your condition and for what your condition may well turn out to be, they would not have the individual authority, not being trained in The Way of Knowledge and Insight themselves, to assist you or to resist the collective consciousness that has fostered them here and given them life.

You see, individual freedom is not valued by the visitors. They consider it reckless and irresponsible. They only understand their own collective consciousness, which they see as privileged and blessed. And yet they cannot access true spirituality, which is called Knowledge in the universe, for Knowledge is born of an individual’s self-discovery and is brought into being through relationships of a high caliber. Neither of these phenomena are present in the visitors’ social makeup. They cannot think for themselves. Their will is not theirs alone. And so naturally they cannot respect the prospects for developing these two great phenomena within your world, and they are certainly in no position to foster such things. They only seek conformity and allegiance. And the spiritual teachings that they will foster in the world will only serve to make humans compliant, open and unsuspecting in order to garner a trust that has never been earned.

We have seen these things before in other places. We have seen entire worlds fall under control of such collectives. There are many such collectives in the universe. Because such collectives deal with interplanetary trade and extend over vast regions, they adhere to a strict conformity without deviation. There is no individuality amongst them, at least not in any way that you could recognize.

We are not sure that we can give an example in your own world of what this could be like, but we have been told there are commercial interests that span cultures in your world, that wield tremendous power and yet are governed by only a few. This is perhaps a good analogy for what we are describing. However, what we are describing is so much more powerful, pervasive and well established than anything that you could offer in the world as a good example.


It is true of intelligent life everywhere that fear can be a destructive force. Yet fear serves one and only one purpose if it is perceived correctly and that is to inform you of the presence of danger. We are concerned, and that is the nature of our fear. We understand what is at risk. That is the nature of our concern. Your fear is born because you do not know what is occurring, so it is a destructive fear. It is a fear that cannot empower you or give you the perception that you need to comprehend what is occurring within your world.

If you can become informed, then fear is transformed into concern and concern is transformed into constructive action. We know of no other way to describe this.

The interbreeding program is becoming very successful. Already there are those walking your Earth who are born of the visitors’ consciousness and collective endeavor. They cannot reside here for long periods of time, but within only a few years, they will be able to dwell upon the surface of your world permanently. Such will be the perfection of their genetic engineering that they will seem only slightly different from you, more in their manner and in their presence than in their physical appearance, to such a point that they will likely go unnoticed and unrecognized. However, they will have greater mental faculties. And this will give them an advantage that you could not match unless you were trained in The Ways of Insight.

Such is the greater reality into which humanity is emerging — a universe filled with wonders and horrors, a universe of influence, a universe of competition, yet also a universe filled with Grace, much like your own world but infinitely greater. The Heaven that you seek is not here. However, the forces that you must contend with are. This is the greatest threshold that your race will ever face. Each of us in our group has faced this in our own respective worlds, and there has been a great deal of failure, with only some success. Races of beings who can maintain their freedom and insulation must become strong and united and will likely withdraw from Greater Community interactions to a very great degree in order to protect that freedom.

If you think of these things, perhaps you will see corollaries in your own world. The Unseen Ones have told us a great deal regarding your spiritual development and its great promise, but they have also counseled us that your spiritual predispositions and ideals are being greatly manipulated at this time. There are entire teachings being introduced into the world now that teach human acquiescence and the suspension of critical abilities and value only that which is pleasurable and comfortable. These teachings are given to disable people’s ability to access Knowledge within themselves until people reach a point where they feel they are completely dependent upon greater forces that they cannot identify. At that point, they will follow whatever is given them to do, and even if they sense something is wrong, they will no longer have the power to resist.


Humanity has lived in isolation for a long time. Perhaps it is believed that such an Intervention cannot possibly take place and that each person has proprietary rights over his or her own consciousness and mind. But these are only assumptions. Yet we have been told that the wise in your world have learned to overcome these assumptions and have gained the strength to establish their own mental environment.

We fear that our words may be too late and have too little impact and that the one we chose to receive us has too little assistance and support to make this information available. He will encounter disbelief and ridicule, for he will not be believed, and what he will speak of will contradict what many assume to be true. Those who have fallen under alien persuasion, they in particular will oppose him, for they have no choice in the matter.

Into this grave situation the Creator of all life has sent a preparation, a teaching of spiritual ability and discernment, power and accomplishment. We are students of such a teaching, as are many throughout the universe. This teaching is a form of Divine intervention. It does not belong to any one world. It is not the property of any one race. It is not centered around any hero or heroine, any one individual. Such a preparation is now available. It will be needed. From our perspective, it is the only thing currently that can give humanity an opportunity to become wise and discerning regarding your new life in the Greater Community.

As has occurred in your world in your own history, the first to reach the new lands are the explorers and the conquerors. They do not come for altruistic reasons. They come seeking power, resources and dominion. This is the nature of life. If humanity were well versed in Greater Community affairs, you would resist any visitation to your world unless a mutual agreement had been established previously. You would know enough not to allow your world to be so vulnerable.

At this time, there is more than one collective competing for advantage here. That places humanity in the middle of a very unusual and yet enlightening set of circumstances. That is why the messages of the visitors will often seem inconsistent. There has been conflict amongst them, yet they will negotiate with each other should mutual benefit be recognized. However, they are still in competition. To them, this is the frontier. To them, you are only valued as being useful. If you are no longer recognized as being useful, you will simply be discarded.

Here there is a great challenge for the people of your world and particularly for those who are in positions of power and responsibility to recognize the difference between a spiritual presence and a visitation from the Greater Community. Yet how can you have the framework to make this distinction? Where can you learn such things? Who in your world is in the position to teach about the reality of the Greater Community? Only a teaching from beyond the world can prepare you for life beyond the world, and life beyond the world is now in your world, seeking to establish itself here, seeking to extend its influence, seeking to win the minds and hearts and souls of people everywhere. It is so simple. And yet so devastating.

Therefore, our task in these messages is to bring a great warning, but the warning is not enough. There must be a recognition amongst your people. At least amongst enough people here, there must be an understanding of the reality that you are now facing. This is the greatest event in human history — the greatest threat to human freedom and the greatest opportunity for human unity and cooperation. We recognize these great advantages and possibilities, but with each passing day their promise fades — as more and more people are captured and their awareness is recultivated and reconstituted, as more and more people learn of the spiritual teachings that are being promoted by the visitors and as more and more people become more acquiescent and less able to discern.


We have come at the request of the Unseen Ones to serve in this capacity as observers. Should we be successful, we will remain in the proximity of your world only long enough to continue to give you this information. Beyond that, we will return to our own homes. Should we fail and should the tide turn against humanity and should the great darkness come over the world, the darkness of domination, then we will have to depart, our mission unfulfilled. Either way, we cannot stay with you, though should you show promise we shall stay until you are safeguarded, until you can provide for yourselves. Included in this is the requirement that you be self-sufficient. Should you become reliant upon trade with other races, this creates a very great risk of manipulation from beyond, for humanity is not yet strong enough to resist the power in the mental environment that can be exerted here and is being exerted here now.

The visitors will try to create the impression that they are “the allies of humanity.” They will say they are here to save humanity from itself, that only they can offer the great hope that humanity cannot provide for itself, that only they can establish true order and harmony in the world. But this order and this harmony will be theirs, not yours. And the freedom that they promise will not be yours to enjoy.




1–4: Manipulation of Religious Traditions and Beliefs


In order to understand the visitors’ activities in the world today, we must present more information regarding their influence on world religious institutions and values and on the fundamental spiritual impulses which are common to your nature and which, in many ways, are common to intelligent life in many parts of the Greater Community.

We should begin by saying that the activities that the visitors are conducting in the world at this time have been carried on many times before in many different places with many different cultures in the Greater Community. Your visitors are not the originators of these activities but merely use them at their own discretion and have used them many times before.

It is important for you to understand that skills in influence and manipulation have been developed to a very high degree of functionality in the Greater Community. As races become more adept and more capable technologically, they exert more subtle and more pervasive kinds of influence upon one another. Human beings have only evolved thus far to compete with each other, so you do not yet have this adaptive advantage. This in itself is one of the reasons why we are presenting this material to you. You are entering a whole new set of circumstances that require the cultivation of your inherent abilities as well as the learning of new skills.

Though humanity represents a unique situation, emergence into the Greater Community has happened countless times before with other races. Therefore, what is being perpetrated upon you has been done before. It has been highly developed and is now being adapted to your life and to your situation with what we feel is relative ease.

The Pacification Program that is being implemented by the visitors is making this possible, in part. The desire for peaceful relations and the desire to avoid war and conflict are admirable but can be, and indeed are being, used against you. Even your most noble impulses can be used for other purposes. You have seen this in your own history, in your own nature and in your own societies. Peace can only be established upon a firm foundation of wisdom, cooperation and true ability.

Humanity has naturally been concerned with establishing peaceful relations amongst its own tribes and nations. Now, however, it has a greater set of problems and challenges. We view these as opportunities for your development, for it will only be the challenge of emerging into the Greater Community that will unite the world and give you the foundation for this unity to be genuine, strong and effective.

Therefore, we come not to criticize your religious institutions or your most fundamental impulses and values, but to illustrate how they are being used against you by those alien races who are intervening in your world. And, if it is within our power, we wish to encourage the right employment of your gifts and your accomplishments for the preservation of your world, your freedom and your integrity as a race within a Greater Community context.

The visitors are fundamentally practical in their approach. This is both a strength and a weakness. As we have observed them, both here and elsewhere, we see that it is difficult for them to deviate from their plans. They are not well adapted to change, nor can they deal with complexity very effectively. Therefore, they carry out their plan in an almost careless manner, for they feel that they are in the right and that they have the advantage. They do not believe that humanity will mount resistance against them — at least not resistance that will affect them greatly. And they feel that their secrets and their agenda are well preserved and are beyond human comprehension.

In this light, our activity in presenting this material to you makes us their enemies, certainly in their sight. In our sight, however, we are merely attempting to counter their influence and to give you the understanding that you need and the perspective that you must rely upon to preserve your freedom as a race and to deal with the realities of the Greater Community.

Due to the practical nature of their approach, they wish to accomplish their goals with the greatest efficiency possible. They wish to unite humanity but only in accordance with their own participation and activities in the world. To them, human unity is a practical concern. They do not value diversity in cultures; they certainly do not value it within their own cultures. Therefore, they will attempt to eradicate it or minimize it, if possible, wherever they are exerting their influence.


In our previous discourse, we talked about the visitors’ influence on new forms of spirituality — on new ideas and new expressions of human divinity and human nature that are in your world at this time. In our discussion now, we would like to focus on the traditional values and institutions that your visitors seek to influence and are influencing today.

Attempting to promote uniformity and conformity, the visitors will rely on those institutions and those values that they feel are the most stable and practical for their use. They are not interested in your ideas, and they are not interested in your values, except insofar as these things might further their agenda. Do not deceive yourself in thinking that they are drawn to your spirituality because they lack such things themselves. This would be a foolish and perhaps fatal mistake. Do not think that they are enamored with your life and with those things that you find to be intriguing. For only in rare cases will you be able to influence them in this way. All natural curiosity has been bred out of them and very little remains. There is, in fact, very little of what you would call “Spirit” or what we would call “Varne” or “The Way of Insight.” They are controlled and controlling and follow patterns of thinking and behavior that are firmly established and strictly reinforced. They might seem to empathize with your ideas, but it is only to gain your allegiance.

In traditional religious institutions in your world, they will seek to utilize those values and those fundamental beliefs that can serve in the future to bring you into allegiance to them. Let us give you some examples, born both of our own observations and of the insight that the Unseen Ones have given us over time.

Many in your world follow the Christian faith. We think this is admirable though it is certainly not the only approach to the fundamental questions of spiritual identity and purpose in life. The visitors will utilize the fundamental idea of allegiance to a single leader in order to generate allegiance to their cause. Within the context of this religion, the identification with Jesus the Christ will be greatly utilized. The hope and the promise of his return to the world offers your visitors a perfect opportunity, particularly at this turning point in the millennium.

It is our understanding that the true Jesus will not return to the world, for he is working in concert with the Unseen Ones and serves humanity and other races as well. The one who will come claiming his name will come from the Greater Community. He will be one who is born and bred for this purpose by the collectives that are in the world today. He will appear human and will have significant abilities compared to what you can accomplish at this moment. He will seem completely altruistic. He will be able to perform acts that will engender either fear or great reverence. He will be able to project images of angels, demons or whatever his superiors wish to expose you to. He will seem to have spiritual powers. Yet he will come from the Greater Community, and he will be part of the collective. And he will engender allegiance to follow him. Eventually, for those who cannot follow him, he will encourage their alienation or their destruction.

The visitors do not care how many of your people are destroyed so long as they have a primary allegiance amongst the majority.

Therefore, the visitors will focus on those fundamental ideas that give them this authority and influence.


A Second Coming, then, is being prepared by your visitors. The evidence of this, we understand, is already in the world. People do not realize the presence of the visitors or the nature of reality in the Greater Community, and so they will naturally accept their prior beliefs without question, feeling that the time has come for the great return of their Savior and their Teacher. But he who will come will not come from the Heavenly Host, he will not represent Knowledge or the Unseen Ones, and he will not represent the Creator or the Creator’s will. We have seen this plan in formulation in the world. We have also seen similar plans carried out in other worlds.

In other religious traditions, uniformity will be encouraged by the visitors — what you might call a fundamental kind of religion based upon the past, based upon allegiance to authority and based upon conformity to the institution. This serves the visitors. They are not interested in the ideology and values of your religious traditions, only in their usefulness. The more that people can think alike, act alike and respond in predictable ways, the more useful they are to the collectives. This conformity is being promoted in many different traditions. The intent here is not to make them all the same but to have them be simple within themselves.

In one part of the world, one particular religious ideology will prevail; in a different part of the world, a different religious ideology will prevail. This is entirely useful to your visitors, for they do not care if there is more than one religion so long as there is order, conformity and allegiance. Having no religion of their own that you could possibly follow or identify with, they will use yours to engender their own values. For they value only total allegiance to their cause and to the collectives and seek your total allegiance to participate with them in ways that they prescribe. They will assure you that this will create peace and redemption in the world and the return of whatever religious image or personage is considered of the greatest value here.


This is not to say that fundamental religion is governed by alien forces, for we understand that fundamental religion has been well established in your world. What we are saying here is that the impulses for this and the mechanisms for this will be supported by the visitors and used for their own purposes. Therefore, great care must be given by all who are true believers in their traditions to discern these influences and to counteract them if possible. Here it is not the average person in the world that the visitors seek to convince; it is the leadership.

The visitors firmly believe that if they do not intervene in a timely manner, humanity will destroy itself and the world. This is not based upon truth; it is only an assumption. Though humanity is at risk of self-annihilation, this is not necessarily your destiny. But the collectives believe that this is so, and so they must act with haste and give their programs of persuasion great emphasis. Those who can be convinced will be valued as useful; those that cannot be convinced will be discarded and alienated. Should the visitors become strong enough to gain complete control of the world, those who cannot conform will simply be eliminated. Yet the visitors will not do the destruction. It will be wrought through the very individuals in the world who have fallen completely under their persuasion.

This is a terrible scenario, we understand, but there must be no confusion if you are to understand and receive what we are expressing in our messages to you. It is not the annihilation of humanity, it is the integration of humanity that the visitors seek to accomplish. They will interbreed with you for this purpose. They will attempt to redirect your religious impulses and institutions for this purpose. They will establish themselves in a clandestine manner in the world for this purpose. They will influence governments and government leaders for this purpose. They will influence military powers in the world for this purpose. The visitors are confident that they can be successful, for so far they see that humanity has not yet mounted enough resistance to counteract their measures or to offset their agenda.

To counteract this, you must learn a Greater Community Way of Knowledge. Any free race in the universe must learn The Way of Knowledge, however it may be defined within their own cultures. This is the source of individual freedom. This is what enables individuals and societies to have true integrity and to have the wisdom necessary to deal with the influences that counteract Knowledge, both within their worlds and within the Greater Community. It is, therefore, necessary to learn new ways, for you are entering a new situation with new forces and new influences. Indeed, this is not some future prospect but an immediate challenge. Life in the universe does not wait upon your readiness. Events will happen whether you are prepared or not. Visitation has occurred without your agreement and without your permission. And your fundamental rights are being violated to a far greater degree than you yet realize.

Because of this, we have been sent not only to give our perspective and our encouragement but also to sound a calling, an alarm, to inspire an awareness and a commitment. We have said before that we cannot save your race through military intervention. That is not our role. And even if we attempted to do so and garnered the strength to carry out such an agenda, your world would be destroyed. We can only advise.

You will see in the future a ferocity of religious belief expressed in violent ways, carried out against people who disagree, against nations of less strength and used as a weapon of attack and destruction. The visitors would like nothing better than for your religious institutions to govern the nations. This you must resist. The visitors would like nothing better than to have religious values shared by everyone, for this adds to their labor force and makes their task easier. In all of its manifestations, such influence fundamentally reduces down to acquiescence and submission — submission of will, submission of purpose, submission of one’s life and abilities. Yet this will be heralded as a great achievement for humanity, a great advancement in society, a new unification for the human race, a new hope for peace and equanimity, a triumph of human spirit over human instincts.

Therefore, we come with our counsel and encourage you to refrain from making unwise decisions, from giving your life over to things that you do not understand and from acquiescing your discernment and your discretion for the sake of any promised reward. And we must encourage you not to betray Knowledge within yourself, the spiritual intelligence with which you were born and which now holds your only and greatest promise.

Perhaps in hearing this you will view the universe as a place devoid of Grace. Perhaps you will become cynical and afraid, thinking that avarice is universal. But this is not the case. What is needed now is for you to become strong, stronger than you are, stronger than you have been. Do not welcome communications with those intervening in your world until you have this strength. Do not open your minds and hearts to visitors from beyond the world, for they come here for their own purposes. Do not think that they will fulfill your religious prophesies or greatest ideals, for this is a delusion.

There are great spiritual forces in the Greater Community — individuals and even nations that have achieved very high states of accomplishment, far beyond what humanity has demonstrated thus far. But they do not come and take control of other worlds. They do not represent political and economic forces in the universe. They are not involved in commerce beyond fulfilling their own fundamental needs. They rarely travel, except in situations of emergency.

Emissaries are sent to help those who are emerging into the Greater Community, emissaries such as ourselves. And there are spiritual emissaries as well — the power of the Unseen Ones, who can speak to those who are ready to receive and who show good heart and good promise. This is how God works in the universe.

You are entering a difficult new environment. Your world is very valuable to others. You will need to protect it. You will need to preserve your resources so that you do not require or depend upon trade with other nations for the fundamental necessities of your life. If you do not preserve your resources, you will have to relinquish much of your freedom and self-sufficiency.

Your spirituality must be sound. It must be based upon real experience, for values and beliefs, rituals and traditions can be used and are being used by your visitors for their own purpose.

Here you can begin to see that your visitors are very vulnerable in certain areas. Let us explore this further. Individually, they have very little will and have difficulty dealing with complexities. They do not understand your spiritual nature. And they most certainly do not understand the impulses of Knowledge. The stronger you are with Knowledge, the more inexplicable you become, the harder you are to control and the less useful you become to them and to their program of integration. Individually, the stronger you are with Knowledge, the greater challenge you become to them. The more individuals that become strong with Knowledge, the more difficult it is for the visitors to isolate them.

The visitors do not have physical strength. Their power is in the mental environment and in the use of their technologies. Their numbers are small compared to yours. They are wholly reliant upon your acquiescence, and they are overly confident that they can succeed. Based upon their experience so far, humanity has not offered significant resistance. Yet the stronger you are with Knowledge, the more you become a force that opposes intervention and manipulation and the more you become a force for freedom and integrity for your race.

Though perhaps not many will be able to hear our message, your response is important. Perhaps it is easy to disbelieve our presence and our reality and to react against our message, yet we speak in accordance with Knowledge. Therefore, what we are saying can be known within you, if you are free to know it.

We understand that we challenge many beliefs and conventions in our presentation. Even our appearance here will seem inexplicable and will be rejected by many. Yet our words and our message can resonate with you because we speak with Knowledge. The power of truth is the greatest power in the universe. It has the power to free. It has the power to enlighten. And it has the power to give strength and confidence to those who need it.

We are told that human conscience is highly valued though perhaps not always followed. It is this that we are speaking of when we talk about The Way of Knowledge. It is fundamental to all of your true spiritual impulses. It is contained in your religions already. It is not new to you. But it must be valued, or our efforts and the efforts of the Unseen Ones to prepare humanity for the Greater Community will not be successful. Too few will respond. And the truth will be a burden for them, for they will not be able to share it effectively.

Therefore, we come not to criticize your religious institutions or conventions, but only to illustrate how they can be used against you. We are not here to replace them or to deny them, but to show how true integrity must pervade these institutions and conventions in order for them to serve you in a genuine way.

In the Greater Community, spirituality is embodied in what we call Knowledge, Knowledge meaning the intelligence of Spirit and the movement of Spirit within you. This empowers you to know rather than only believe. This gives you immunity from persuasion and manipulation, for Knowledge cannot be manipulated by any worldly power or force. This gives life to your religions and hope for your destiny.

We hold true to these ideas, for they are fundamental. They are lacking in the collectives, however, and should you encounter the collectives, or even their presence, and have the power to maintain your own mind, you will see this for yourself.

We are told that there are many people in the world who wish to give themselves over, to give themselves away to a greater power in life. This is not unique to the world of humanity, but in the Greater Community such an approach leads to enslavement. We understand that in your own world, before the visitors were here in such numbers, such an approach often led to enslavement. But in the Greater Community, you are more vulnerable and must be wiser, more careful and more self-sufficient. Recklessness here brings with it a heavy price and great misfortune.

If you can respond to Knowledge and learn a Greater Community Way of Knowledge, you will be able to see these things for yourself. Then you will confirm our words rather than only believe them or deny them. The Creator is making this possible, for the Creator wills that humanity prepare for its future. That is why we have come. That is why we are watching and now have the opportunity to report what we see.

The religious traditions of the world speak well for you in their essential teachings. We have had the opportunity to learn about them from the Unseen Ones. But they also represent a potential weakness. If humanity were more vigilant and understood the realities of life in the Greater Community and the meaning of premature visitation, your risks would not be so great as they are today. There is hope and expectation that such visitation will bring great rewards and will be a fulfillment for you. Yet you have not been able to learn of the reality of the Greater Community or of the powerful forces that are interacting with your world. Your lack of understanding and premature trust in the visitors do not serve you.

It is for this reason that the wise throughout the Greater Community remain hidden. They do not seek commerce in the Greater Community. They do not seek to be part of guilds or trading cooperatives. They do not seek diplomacy with many worlds. Their network of allegiance is more mysterious, more spiritual in nature. They understand the risks and the difficulties of exposure to the realities of life in the physical universe. They maintain their insulation, and they remain vigilant at their borders. They only seek to extend their wisdom through means that are less physical in nature.

In your own world, perhaps, you can see this expressed in those who are the wisest, the most gifted, who do not seek personal advantage through commercial avenues and who are not given to conquest and manipulation. Your own world tells you so much. Your own history tells you so much and illustrates, though on a smaller scale, everything that we are presenting to you here.

Thus, it is our intention not only to warn you of the gravity of your situation but to provide you, if we can, a greater perception and understanding of life, which you will need. And we trust that there will be enough who can hear these words and respond to the greatness of Knowledge. We hope there will be those who can recognize that our messages are not here to evoke fear and panic but to engender responsibility and a commitment to the preservation of freedom and good within your world.

If humanity should fail in opposing the Intervention, we can paint a picture of what this would mean. We have seen it elsewhere, for each one of us came very close, within our own worlds. Being part of a collective, the planet Earth will be mined for its resources, its people will be corralled to work and its rebels and heretics will be either alienated or destroyed. The world will be preserved for its agriculture and its mining interests. Human societies will exist, but only in subordination to powers from beyond your world. And should the world exhaust its usefulness, should its resources be completely taken, then you will be left, bereft. The supportive life upon your world will have been taken from you; the very means of survival will have been stolen. This has happened before in many other places.

In the case of this world, the collectives may choose to preserve the world for ongoing use as a strategic post and as a biological storehouse. Yet the human population would suffer terribly under such oppressive rule. The population of humanity would be reduced. The management of humanity would be given to those who are bred to lead the human race within a new order. Human freedom as you know it would no longer exist, and you would suffer under the weight of foreign rule, a rule that would be harsh and exacting.

There are many collectives in the Greater Community. Some of them are large; some of them are small. Some of them are more ethical in their tactics; many are not. To the extent that they compete with one another for opportunities, such as the rule of your world, dangerous activities can be perpetrated. We must give this illustration so that you will have no doubt as to what we are saying. The choices before you are very limited, but very fundamental.

Therefore, understand that from your visitors’ perspective, you are all tribes that need to be managed and controlled in order to serve the visitors’ interests. For this, your religions and a certain degree of your social reality will be preserved. But you will lose a great deal. And much will be lost before you realize what has been taken from you. Therefore, we can only advocate a vigilance, a responsibility and a commitment to learn — to learn about life in the Greater Community, to learn how to preserve your own culture and your own reality within a greater environment and to learn how to see who is here to serve you and distinguish them from those who are not. This greater discernment is so needed in the world, even for the resolution of your own difficulties. But regarding your survival and well-being in the Greater Community, it is absolutely fundamental.

Therefore, we encourage you to take heart. We have more to share with you.




1–5: Threshold: A New Promise for Humanity


In order to prepare for the alien presence that is in the world, it is necessary to learn more about life in the Greater Community, life that will envelope your world in the future, life that you will be a part of.

Humanity’s destiny was always to emerge into a Greater Community of intelligent life. This is inevitable and occurs in all worlds where intelligent life has been seeded and has developed. Eventually, you would have come to realize that you lived within a Greater Community. And, eventually, you would have found that you were not alone in your own world, that visitation was occurring and that you would have to learn to contend with divergent races, forces, beliefs and attitudes that are prevalent in the Greater Community in which you live.

Emerging into the Greater Community is your destiny. Your isolation is now over. Though your world has been visited many times in the past, your isolated state has come to an end. Now it is necessary for you to realize that you are no longer alone — in the universe or even within your own world. This understanding is presented more fully in the Teaching in Greater Community Spirituality that is being presented in the world today. Our role here is to describe life as it exists in the Greater Community so that you may have a deeper understanding of the greater panorama of life into which you are emerging. This is necessary in order for you to be able to approach this new reality with greater objectivity, understanding and wisdom. Humanity has lived in relative isolation for so long that it is natural for you to consider that the rest of the universe functions according to the ideas, principles and science that you hold sacred and upon which you base your activities and your perceptions of the world.

The Greater Community is vast. Its furthest reaches have never been explored. It is greater than any race can comprehend. Within this magnificent creation, intelligent life exists at all levels of evolution and in countless expressions. Your world exists in a part of the Greater Community that is fairly well inhabited. There are many areas of the Greater Community that have never been explored and other areas where races live in secret. Everything exists in the Greater Community in terms of the manifestations of life. And though life as we have been describing it seems difficult and challenging, the Creator works everywhere, reclaiming the separated through Knowledge.

In the Greater Community, there can be no one religion, one ideology or one form of government that can be adapted to all races and all peoples. Therefore, when we speak of religion, we speak of the spirituality of Knowledge, for this is the power and presence of Knowledge that dwells in all intelligent life — within you, within your visitors and within other races that you will encounter in the future.

Thus, universal spirituality becomes a great focal point. It brings together the divergent understandings and ideas that are prevalent in your world and gives your own spiritual reality a shared foundation. Yet the study of Knowledge is not only edifying, it is essential for survival and advancement in the Greater Community. For you to be able to establish and sustain your freedom and independence in the Greater Community, you must have this greater ability developed amongst enough people in your world. Knowledge is the only part of you that cannot be manipulated or influenced. It is the source of all wise understanding and action. It becomes a necessity within a Greater Community environment if freedom is valued and if you wish to establish your own destiny without being integrated into a collective or another society.


Therefore, while we present a grave situation in the world today, we also present a great gift and a great promise for humanity, for the Creator would not leave you unprepared for the Greater Community, which is the greatest of all thresholds that you as a race will face. We have been blessed with this gift as well. It has been in our possession for many of your centuries. We have had to learn it both out of choice and out of necessity.

Indeed, it is the presence and the power of Knowledge which enables us to speak as your Allies and to provide the information that we are giving in these briefings. Had we never found this great revelation, we would be isolated in our own worlds, unable to comprehend the greater forces in the universe which would shape our future and our destiny. For the gift that is being given in your world today has been given to us and to many other races as well who showed promise. This gift is especially important for emerging races such as your own who hold such promise and yet are so vulnerable in the Greater Community.

Therefore, while there can be no one religion or ideology in the universe, there is a universal principle, understanding and spiritual reality that is available to all. So complete is it that it can speak to those who are vastly different from you. It speaks to the diversity of life in all of its manifestations. You, living within your world, now have the opportunity to learn of such a great reality, to experience its power and grace for yourselves. Indeed, ultimately this is the gift that we wish to reinforce, for this will preserve your freedom and your self-determination and will open the door to a greater promise in the universe.

However, you have adversity and a great challenge at the outset. This requires you to learn a deeper Knowledge and a greater awareness. Should you respond to this challenge, you become the beneficiary not only for yourself, but for your entire race.

The teaching in Greater Community Spirituality is being presented in the world today. It has never been presented here before. It is being given through one person, who serves as the intermediary and speaker for this Tradition. It is being sent into the world at this critical time when humanity must learn of its life in the Greater Community and of the greater forces that are shaping the world today.

Only a teaching and understanding from beyond the world could give you this advantage and this preparation.

You are not alone in undertaking such a great task, for there are others in the universe undertaking this, even at your stage of development. You are but one of many races emerging into the Greater Community at this time. Each one holds promise and yet each is vulnerable to the difficulties, challenges and influences that exist in this greater environment. Indeed, many races have lost their freedom before it was ever attained only to become part of collectives or commercial guilds or client states to larger powers.

We do not wish to see this happen for humanity, for this would be a great loss. It is for this reason that we are here. It is for this reason that the Creator is active in the world today, bringing a new understanding to the human family. It is time for humanity to end its ceaseless conflicts with itself and to prepare for life in the Greater Community.

You live in an area that has a great deal of activity beyond the sphere of your tiny solar system. Within this area, trade is carried on along certain avenues. Worlds interact, compete and sometimes conflict with each other. Opportunities are being sought by all who have commercial interests. They seek not only resources but also allegiances from worlds such as your own. Some are part of larger collectives. Others maintain their own alliances on a much smaller scale. Worlds that are able to emerge into the Greater Community successfully have had to maintain their autonomy and self-sufficiency to a great degree. This frees them from exposure to other forces which would only serve to exploit and manipulate them.

It is indeed your self-sufficiency and the development of your understanding and unity that become most essential for your wellbeing in the future. And this future is not far off, for already the influence of the visitors is becoming greater in your world. Many individuals have acquiesced to them already and now serve as their emissaries and intermediaries. Many other individuals simply serve as resources for their genetic program. This has happened, as we have said, many times in many places. It is not a mystery to us though it must seem incomprehensible to you.

The Intervention is both a misfortune and a vital opportunity. If you are able to respond, if you are able to prepare, if you are able to learn Greater Community Knowledge and Wisdom, then you will be able to offset the forces that are interfering in your world and build the foundation for greater unity amongst your own peoples and tribes. We, of course, encourage this, for this strengthens the bond of Knowledge everywhere.

In the Greater Community, warfare on a large scale rarely occurs. There are constraining forces. For one thing, warfare disturbs commerce and resource development. As a result, large nations are not allowed to act recklessly, for it impedes or offsets the goals of other parties, other nations and other interests. Civil war occurs periodically in worlds, but large-scale warfare between societies and between worlds is rare indeed. It is partly for this reason that skill in the mental environment has been established, for nations do compete with each other and attempt to influence one another. Since no one wants to destroy resources and opportunities, these greater skills and capabilities are cultivated with varying degrees of success amongst many societies in the Greater Community. When these kinds of influences are present, the need for Knowledge is even greater.

Humanity is ill prepared for this. Yet because of your rich spiritual heritage and the degree to which personal freedom exists in your world today, there is promise that you may be able to advance in this greater understanding and thus secure your freedom and preserve it.

There are other constraints against warfare in the Greater Community. Most trading societies belong to large guilds that have established laws and codes of conduct for their members. These serve to constrain the activities of many who would seek to use force to gain access to other worlds and their proprietary resources. For warfare to break out on a large scale, many races would have to be involved, and this does not happen often. We understand that humanity is very warlike and conceives of conflict in the Greater Community in terms of warfare, but in reality you will find that this is not well tolerated and that other avenues of persuasion are employed in place of force.

Thus, your visitors come to your world not with great armaments. They do not come bringing large military forces, for they employ the skills that have served them in other ways — skills in manipulating the thoughts, the impulses and the feelings of those whom they encounter. Humanity is very vulnerable to such persuasions given the degree of superstition, conflict and mistrust that are prevalent in your world at this time.

Therefore, to understand your visitors and to understand others whom you will encounter in the future, you must establish a more mature approach to the use of power and influence. This is a vital part of your Greater Community education. Part of the preparation for this will be given in the Teaching in Greater Community Spirituality, but you must also learn through direct experience.

At present, we understand, there is a very fanciful view of the Greater Community amongst many people. It is believed that those who are technologically advanced are spiritually advanced as well, yet we can assure you that this is not the case. You yourselves, though more technologically advanced now than you were previously, have not spiritually advanced to a very great degree. You have more power, but with power comes the need for greater restraint.

There are those in the Greater Community who have far more power than you at a technological level and even at the level of thought. You will evolve to deal with them, but weaponry will not be your focus.

For warfare on an interplanetary scale is so destructive that everyone loses. What are the spoils of such a conflict? What advantages does it secure? Indeed, when such conflict does exist, it happens in space itself and rarely in terrestrial environments. Rogue nations and those who are destructive and aggressive are quickly countered, particularly if they exist in well-populated areas where commerce is carried on.

Therefore, it is necessary for you to understand the nature of conflict in the universe because this will give you insight into the visitors and their needs — why they function the way they do, why individual freedom is unknown amongst them and why they rely upon their collectives. This gives them stability and power, but it also renders them vulnerable to those who are skilled with Knowledge.

Knowledge enables you to think in any number of ways, to act spontaneously, to perceive reality beyond the obvious and to experience the future and the past. Such abilities are beyond the reach of those who can only follow the regimens and the dictates of their cultures. You are far behind the visitors technologically, but you have the promise to develop skills in The Way of Knowledge, skills which you will need and must learn to rely upon increasingly.

We would not be the Allies of Humanity if we did not teach you about life in the Greater Community. We have seen much. We have encountered many different things. Our worlds were overcome and we had to regain our freedom. We know, from error and from experience, the nature of the conflict and the challenge that you face today. That is why we are well suited for this mission in our service to you. However, you will not meet us, and we will not come to meet the leaders of your nations. That is not our purpose.

Indeed, you need as little interference as possible, but you do need great assistance. There are new skills that you must develop and a new understanding that you must gain. Even a benevolent society, should they come to your world, would have such an influence and such an impact upon you that you would become dependent upon them and would not establish your own strength, your own power and your own self-sufficiency. You would be so reliant upon their technology and upon their understanding that they would not be able to leave you. And indeed, their arrival here would make you even more vulnerable to interference in the future. For you would desire their technology, and you would want to travel along the corridors of trade in the Greater Community. Yet you would not be prepared, and you would not be wise.

That is why your future friends are not here. That is why they are not coming to help you. For you would not become strong if they did. You would want to associate with them, you would want to have alliances with them, but you would be so weak that you could not protect yourselves. In essence, you would become part of their culture, which they do not will.

Perhaps many people will not be able to understand what we are saying here, but in time this will make perfect sense to you, and you will see its wisdom and its necessity. At this moment, you are far too frail, too distracted and too conflicted to form strong alliances, even with those who could be your future friends. Humanity cannot yet speak as one voice, and so you are prone to intervention and manipulation from beyond.

As the reality of the Greater Community becomes more well known within your world, and if our message can reach enough people, then there will be a growing consensus that there is a greater problem facing humanity. This could create a new basis for cooperation and consensus. For what possible advantage can one nation in your world have over another when the entire world is threatened by the Intervention? And who could seek to gain individual power in an environment where alien forces are intervening? If freedom is to be real in your world, it must be shared. It must be recognized and known. It cannot be the privilege of the few or there will be no real strength here.

We understand from the Unseen Ones that already there are people who seek world dominion because they believe they have the visitors’ blessings and support. They have the visitors’ assurance that they will be assisted in their quest for power. And yet, what are they giving away but the keys to their own freedom and the freedom of their world? They are unknowing and unwise. They cannot see their error.


We also understand that there are those who believe that the visitors are here to represent a spiritual renaissance and a new hope for humanity, but how can they know, they who know nothing of the Greater Community? It is their hope and their desire that this be the case, and such wishes are accommodated by the visitors, for very obvious reasons.

What we are saying here is there can be nothing short of real freedom in the world, real power and real unity. We make our message available to everyone, and we trust that our words can be received and considered seriously. Yet we have no control over your response. And the superstitions and the fears of the world may make our message beyond the reach for many. But the promise is still there. To give you more, we would have to take over your world, which we do not want to do. Therefore, we give all that we can give without interfering in your affairs. Yet there are many who want interference. They want to be rescued or saved by someone else. They do not trust the possibilities for humanity. They do not believe in humanity’s inherent strengths and capabilities. They will give over their freedom willingly. They will believe what they are told by the visitors. And they will serve their new masters, thinking that what they are being given is their own liberation.

Freedom is a precious thing in the Greater Community. Never forget this. Your freedom, our freedom. And what is freedom but the ability to follow Knowledge, the reality that the Creator has given you, and to express Knowledge and to contribute Knowledge in all of its manifestations?

Your visitors do not have this freedom. It is unknown to them. They look at the chaos of your world, and they believe that the order that they will impose here will be redeeming for you and will save you from your own self-destruction. This is all they can give, for this is all that they have. And they will use you, but they do not consider this inappropriate, for they themselves are being used and know of no alternative to this. Their programming, their conditioning, is so thorough that to reach them at the level of their deeper spirituality holds only remote possibilities. You do not have the strength to do this. You would have to be so much stronger than you are today to have a redeeming influence on your visitors. And yet, their conformity is not so unusual in the Greater Community. It is very common in large collectives, where uniformity and compliance are essential to efficient functioning, particularly over vast areas of space.

Therefore, do not look at the Greater Community with fear, but with objectivity. The conditions that we are describing already exist in your world. You can understand these things. Manipulation is known to you. Influence is known to you. You have just never encountered them on such a great scale, nor have you ever had to compete with other forms of intelligent life. As a result, you do not yet have the skills to do so.

We speak of Knowledge because it is your greatest ability. Regardless of what technology you can develop over time, Knowledge is your greatest promise. You are far behind the visitors in your technological development, so you must rely upon Knowledge. It is the greatest force in the universe, and your visitors do not use it. It is your only hope. That is why the Teaching in Greater Community Spirituality teaches The Way of Knowledge, provides the Steps to Knowledge and teaches Greater Community Wisdom and Insight. Without this preparation, you would not have the skill or the perspective to understand your dilemma or to respond to it effectively. It is too big. It is too new. And you are not adapted to these new circumstances.

The visitors’ influence is growing with each passing day. Every person who can hear this, feel this and know this must learn The Way of Knowledge, The Greater Community Way of Knowledge. This is a calling. It is a gift. It is a challenge.

Under more pleasant circumstances, well, the need may not seem as great. But the need is tremendous, for there is no security, there is no place to hide, there is no retreat in the world that is secure from the alien presence that is here. That is why there are only two choices: you can acquiesce or you can stand for your freedom.

This is the great decision placed before each person. This is the great turning point. You cannot be foolish in the Greater Community. It is too demanding an environment. It requires excellence, commitment. Your world is too valuable. The resources here are coveted by others. The strategic position of your world is held in high regard. Even if you were living in some remote world far from any trade route, far from all commercial engagements, eventually you would be discovered by someone. That eventuality has come for you now. And it is well underway.


Take heart, then. This is a time for courage, not ambivalence. The gravity of the situation facing you only confirms the importance of your life and your response and the importance of the preparation that is being given in the world today. It is not only for your edification and advancement. It is for your protection and your survival as well.




1–6: Questions and Answers
Note: These questions were sent to New Knowledge Library by many of the first readers of the Allies Material.

______________________

We feel that it is important, given the information that we have provided thus far, to respond to questions that must surely arise regarding our reality and the significance of the messages that we have come to give.

~

“Given the lack of hard evidence, why should people believe what you are telling them about the Intervention?”

First, there must be great evidence concerning the visitation to your world. We have been told that this is the case. Yet we have also been told by the Unseen Ones that people do not know how to understand the evidence and that they give it their own meaning — a meaning that they prefer to give it, a meaning that provides comfort and reassurance for the most part. We are certain that there is adequate evidence to verify that the Intervention is occurring in the world today if one takes the time to look and to investigate this matter. The fact that your governments or religious leaders do not reveal such things does not mean that such a great event is not occurring in your midst.

~

“How can people know that you are real?”

Regarding our reality, we cannot demonstrate our physical presence to you, and so you must discern the meaning and the import of our words. At this point, it is not merely a matter of belief. It requires a greater recognition, a Knowledge, a resonance. The words we speak we believe are true, but that does not assure that they can be received as such. We cannot control the response to our message. There are people who require more evidence than can possibly be given. For others, such evidence will not be necessary, for they will feel an inner confirmation.

In the meantime, perhaps we remain a controversy, and yet we hope and we trust that our words can be considered seriously and that the evidence that does exist, which is substantial, can be gathered and understood by those who are willing to give this their effort and their focus in life. From our perspective, there is no greater problem, challenge and opportunity to receive your attention.

Therefore, you are at the beginning of a new understanding. This does require faith and self-reliance. Many will reject our words simply because they do not believe that we could possibly exist.

Others perhaps will think that we are part of some manipulation that is being cast upon the world. We cannot control these responses. We can only reveal our message and our presence in your life, however removed that presence may be. It is not our presence here that is of paramount importance, but the message that we have come to reveal and the greater perspective and understanding that we can provide for you. Your education must begin somewhere. All education begins with the desire to know.

We hope that through our discourses we can gain at least part of your confidence in order to begin to reveal what we are here to offer.

~

“What do you have to say to those who view the Intervention as a positive thing?”

We understand, first of all, the expectation that all forces from the heavens are related to your spiritual understanding, traditions and fundamental beliefs. The idea that there is prosaic life in the universe is a challenge to these fundamental assumptions. From our perspective and given the experience of our own cultures, we understand these expectations. In the distant past, we maintained them ourselves. And yet we had to relinquish them in facing the realities of Greater Community life and the meaning of visitation.

You live in a great physical universe. It is full of life. This life represents countless manifestations and also represents the evolution of intelligence and spiritual awareness at every level. What this means is that what you will encounter in the Greater Community encompasses almost every possibility.

However, you are isolated and do not yet travel in space. And even if you had the capability to reach another world, the universe is vast, and no one has gained the ability to go from one end of the galaxy to the other with any kind of speed. Therefore, the physical universe remains enormous and incomprehensible. No one has mastered its laws. No one has conquered its territories. No one can claim complete dominance or control. Life has a great humbling effect in this way. Even far beyond your borders this is true.

You should then come to expect that you will meet intelligences representing forces for good, forces for ignorance and those who are more neutral regarding you. However, in the realities of Greater Community travel and exploration, emerging races such as your own will, almost without exception, encounter resource explorers, collectives and those seeking advantage for themselves as their first contact with Greater Community life.

Regarding the positive interpretation of visitation, part of this is human expectation and the natural desire to welcome a good outcome and to seek help from the Greater Community for the problems that humanity has not been able to resolve on its own. It is normal to expect such things, particularly when you are considering that your visitors have greater capabilities than do you. However, a large part of the problem in interpreting the great visitation has to do with the will and the agenda of the visitors themselves. For they are encouraging people everywhere to view their presence here as wholly beneficial to humanity and to its needs.

~

“If this Intervention is so well underway, why didn’t you come sooner?”

At an earlier time, many years ago, several groups of your allies came to your world to visit in an attempt to give a message of hope, to prepare humanity. But alas their messages could not be understood and were misused by those few who could receive them. In the wake of their coming, the visitors from the collectives have amassed and gathered here. It has been known to us that this would happen, for your world is far too valuable to be overlooked, and, as we have said, it does not exist in a remote and distant part of the universe. Your world has been observed for a long time by those who would seek to use it for their own benefit.

~

“Why can’t our allies stop the Intervention?”

We are only here to observe and to advise. The great decisions facing humanity are in your hands. No one else can make these decisions for you. Even your great friends far beyond your world would not intervene, for if they did so, it would cause warfare, and your world would become a battleground between opposing forces. And should your friends be victorious, you would become wholly reliant upon them, unable to fend for yourself or to maintain your own security in the universe. We know of no benevolent race that would seek to bear this burden. And, in truth, it would not serve you either.

For you would become a client state to another power and would have to be governed from afar. This is not beneficial for you in any way, and it is for this reason that this is not occurring. Yet the visitors will cast themselves as saviors and rescuers of humanity. They will utilize your naiveté. They will capitalize on your expectations, and they will seek to wholly benefit from your trust.

Therefore, it is our sincere desire that our words can serve as an antidote to their presence and to their manipulation and abuse. For your rights are being violated. Your territory is being infiltrated. Your governments are being persuaded. And your religious ideologies and impulses are being redirected.

There must be a voice of truth regarding this. And we can only trust that you can receive this voice of truth. We can only hope that the persuasion has not gone too far.

~

“What are realistic goals for us to set, and what is the bottom line with regard to saving humanity from losing its self-determination?”

The first step is awareness. Many people must become aware that the Earth is being visited and that foreign powers are here operating in a clandestine manner, seeking to hide their agenda and endeavors from human understanding. It must be very clear that their presence here is a great challenge to human freedom and self-determination. The agenda that they are furthering and the Pacification Program that they are sponsoring must be countered with sobriety and wisdom regarding their presence. This counteraction must occur. There are many people in the world today who are able to understand this. Therefore, the first step is awareness.

The next step is education. It is necessary for many people in different cultures and in different nations to learn about life in the Greater Community and to begin to comprehend what you will be dealing with and are dealing with even at this moment.

Therefore, realistic goals are awareness and education. This in itself would obstruct the visitors’ agenda in the world. They are operating now with very little resistance. They are encountering few obstacles. All those who seek to view them as “allies of humanity” must learn that this is not the case. Perhaps our words will not be enough, but they are a beginning.

~

“Where can we find this education?”

The education can be found in The Greater Community Way of Knowledge, which is being presented in the world at this time. Though it presents a new understanding about life and spirituality in the universe, it is connected to all of the genuine spiritual paths that already exist within your world — spiritual paths that value human freedom and the meaning of true spirituality and that value cooperation, peace and harmony within the human family. Therefore, the teaching in The Way of Knowledge calls forth all the great truths that already exist in your world and gives them a greater context and arena of expression. In this way, The Greater Community Way of Knowledge does not replace the world’s religions, but provides a larger context within which they can be truly meaningful and relevant to your times.

~

“How do we convey your message to others?”

The truth lives within each person at this moment. If you can speak to the truth in a person, it will become stronger and begin to resonate. Our great hope, the hope of the Unseen Ones, the spiritual forces who serve your world, and the hope of those who value human freedom and wish to see your emergence into the Greater Community successfully fulfilled, rely upon this truth that lives within each person. We cannot force this awareness upon you. We can only reveal it to you and trust in the greatness of Knowledge that the Creator has given you that can enable you and others to respond.

~

“Where do humanity’s strengths lie in opposing the Intervention?”

First, we understand from observing your world, and from what the Unseen Ones have told us regarding things that we cannot see, that though there are great problems within the world, there is sufficient human freedom to give you a foundation for opposing the Intervention. This is in contrast to many other worlds where individual freedom was never established to begin with. As these worlds encounter alien forces in their midst and the reality of Greater Community life, the possibility for them to establish freedom and independence is very limited.

Therefore, you have a great strength in that human freedom is known in your world and is valued by many, though perhaps not all. You know you have something to lose. You value what you have already, to whatever extent it has been established. You do not want to be ruled by foreign powers. You do not even want to be ruled harshly by human authorities. Therefore, this is a beginning.

Next, because your world has rich spiritual traditions that have fostered Knowledge in the individual and fostered human cooperation and understanding, the reality of Knowledge has already been established. Again, in other worlds where Knowledge was never established, the possibility for establishing it at the turning point of emerging into the Greater Community shows little hope for success. Knowledge is strong enough in enough people here that they may be able to learn of the reality of life in the Greater Community and to comprehend what is occurring in their midst at this time. It is for this reason that we are hopeful, for we trust in human wisdom. We trust that people can rise above selfishness, self-preoccupation and self-protection to view life in a greater way and to feel a greater responsibility in service to their own kind.

Perhaps our faith is unfounded, but we are trusting that the Unseen Ones have counseled us wisely regarding this. As a result, we have placed ourselves at risk by being in the proximity of your world and witnessing events beyond your borders that have direct bearing on your future and destiny.

Humanity has great promise. You have a growing awareness of problems in the world — the lack of cooperation amongst nations, the degradation of your natural environment, your diminishing resources and so forth. If these problems were unknown to your people, if these realities had been kept hidden from your people, to the extent that people had no idea of the existence of these things, then we would not be as hopeful. However, the reality remains that humanity has the potential and the promise to counteract any intervention into the world.

~

“Is this Intervention going to become a military invasion?”

As we have said, your world is too valuable to incite a military invasion. No one who is visiting your world wants to destroy its infrastructure or its natural resources. That is why the visitors do not seek to destroy humanity, but instead to engage humanity in service to their collectives.

It is not military invasion that threatens you. It is the power of inducement and persuasion. This will be built upon your own weakness, upon your own selfishness, upon your ignorance of life in the Greater Community and upon your blind optimism regarding your future and the meaning of life beyond your borders.

To counteract this, we provide education and we speak of the means of preparation that are being sent into the world at this time. If you did not already know human freedom, if you were not already aware of the problems endemic to your world, then we could not entrust such a preparation to you. And we would not have confidence that our words would resonate with the truth of what you know.

~

“Can you influence people as powerfully as the visitors, but for the good?”

Our intention is not to influence individuals. Our intention is only to present the problem and the reality into which you are emerging. The Unseen Ones are providing the actual means of preparation, for that comes from the Creator of all life. In this, the Unseen Ones influence individuals for the good. But there are restraints. As we have said, it is your self-determination that must be strengthened. It is your power that must be increased. It is your cooperation amongst the human family that must be supported.

There are limits as to how much help we can provide. Our group is small. We are not walking amongst you. Therefore, the great understanding of your new reality must be shared from person to person. It cannot be forced upon you from a foreign power, even if it were for your own good. We would not, then, be supporting your freedom and self-determination if we sponsored such a program of persuasion. Here you cannot be like children. You must become mature and responsible. It is your freedom that is at stake. It is your world that is at stake. It is your cooperation with each other that is needed.

You now have a great cause to unite your race, for none of you will benefit without the other. No nation will benefit if any other nation falls under alien control. Human freedom must be complete. The cooperation must occur around your world. For everyone is in the same situation now. The visitors do not favor one group over another, one race over another, one nation over another. They only seek the avenue of least resistance to establish their presence and their domination of your world.

~

“How extensive is their infiltration of humanity?”

The visitors have a significant presence within the most advanced nations in your world, particularly the nations of Europe, Russia, Japan and the United States. These are viewed as the strongest nations, having the greatest power and influence. It is there that the visitors will concentrate. However, they are taking people from all over the world, and they are furthering their Pacification Program with all those that they capture, if those individuals can be responsive to their influence. Therefore, the visitors’ presence is worldwide, but they are concentrating on those whom they hope will become their allies. These are the nations and governments and religious leaders who hold the greatest power and sway over human thought and conviction.

~

“How much time do we have?”

How much time do you have? You have some time, how much we cannot tell. But we come with an urgent message. This is not a problem that can simply be avoided or denied. From our perspective, it is the most important challenge facing humanity. It is of the greatest concern, the first priority. You are late in your preparation. This was caused by many factors beyond our control. But there is time, if you can respond. The outcome is uncertain and yet there is still hope for your success.

~

“How can we focus on this Intervention given the immensity of other global problems which are occurring right now?”

First of all, we feel that there are no other problems in the world that are as important as this. From our perspective, whatever you can resolve on your own will have little meaning in the future if your freedom is lost. What could you hope to gain? What could you hope to achieve or secure if you are not free in the Greater Community? All of your accomplishments would be given to your new governors; all of your wealth would be bestowed upon them. And though your visitors are not cruel, they are completely committed to their agenda. You are valued only insofar as you can be useful to their cause. It is for this reason that we do not feel that there are any other problems facing humanity as important as this.

~

“Who is likely to respond to this situation?”

Regarding who can respond, there are many people in the world today who have an inherent knowledge of the Greater Community and who are sensitive to it. There are many others who have been taken by the visitors already but who have not yielded to them or to their persuasion. And there are many others who are concerned about the future of the world and who are alerted to the dangers that humanity faces. People in all or any of these three categories may be amongst the first to respond to the Greater Community reality and to the preparation for the Greater Community. They may come from any walk of life, from any nation, from any religious background or from any economic group. They are literally all over the world. It is upon them and upon their response that the great Spiritual Powers that protect and oversee human welfare are depending.

~

“You mention that individuals are being taken all over the world. How can people protect themselves or others from being abducted?”

The more you can become strong with Knowledge and aware of the visitors’ presence, the less you become a desirable subject for their study and manipulation. The more you use your encounters with them to gain insight into them, the more of a hazard you become. As we have said, they seek the path of least resistance. They want individuals who are compliant and yielding. They want those who cause them few problems and little concern.

Yet as you become strong with Knowledge, you will be beyond their control because now they cannot capture your mind or your heart. And with time, you will have the power of perception to see into their minds, which they do not wish. You then become a danger to them, a challenge to them, and they will avoid you if they can.

The visitors do not want to be revealed. They do not wish for conflict. They are overly confident that they can achieve their goals without serious resistance from the human family. But once such resistance is mounted, once the power of Knowledge awakens in the individual, then the visitors are facing a much more formidable obstacle. Their intervention here becomes thwarted and more difficult to achieve. And their persuasion of those in power becomes more difficult to accomplish. Therefore, it is the individual’s response and commitment to the truth that are essential here.

Become aware of the visitors’ presence. Do not yield to the persuasion that their presence here is of a spiritual nature or that it holds great benefit or salvation for humanity. Resist the persuasion. Regain your own inner authority, the great gift that the Creator has given to you. Become a force to be reckoned with regarding any who would trespass against or deny your fundamental rights.

This is Spiritual Power being expressed. It is the Will of the Creator that humanity should emerge into the Greater Community united within itself and free from foreign intervention and domination. It is the Creator’s Will that you should prepare for a future that will be unlike your past. We are here in service to the Creator, and thus our presence and our words serve this purpose.

~

“If the visitors encounter resistance in humanity or in certain individuals, will they come in greater numbers or will they leave?”

Their numbers are not great. Should they encounter considerable resistance, they would have to fall back and make new plans. They are wholly confident that their mission can be fulfilled without serious obstacles. Yet should serious obstacles arise, then their intervention and persuasion would be thwarted, and they would have to find other ways of gaining contact with humanity.

We trust that the human family can generate enough resistance and enough consensus in order to offset these influences. It is upon this that we are basing our hope and efforts.

~

“What are the most important questions that we must ask of ourselves and others with respect to this problem of alien infiltration?”

Perhaps the most critical questions to ask yourself are, “Are we humans alone within the universe or in our own world? Are we being visited at this time? Is this visitation beneficial to us? Do we need to prepare?

These are very fundamental questions, but they must be asked. There are many questions, however, that cannot be answered, for you do not know enough about life in the Greater Community, and you are not yet confident that you have the ability to counteract these influences. There are many things lacking in human education, which is primarily focused upon the past. Humanity is emerging from a long state of relative isolation. Its education, its values and its institutions were all established within this state of isolation. Yet your isolation now is over, forever. It was always known that this would happen. It was inevitable that this would be the case. Therefore, your education and your values are entering into a new context, to which they must adapt. And the adaptation must happen quickly because of the nature of the Intervention in the world today.

There will be many questions that you cannot answer. You will have to live with them. Your education about the Greater Community is only at the very beginning. You must approach it with great sobriety and care. You must counteract your own tendencies to try and make the situation pleasant or reassuring. You must develop an objectivity about life, and you must look beyond your own personal sphere of interests in order to put yourself in a position to respond to the greater forces and events that are shaping your world and your future.

~

“What if enough people cannot respond?”

We are confident that enough people can respond and begin their great education about life in the Greater Community in order to give promise and hope to the human family. If this cannot be achieved, then those who value their freedom and who have this education will have to retreat. They will have to keep Knowledge alive in the world as the world falls under complete control. This is a very grave alternative, and yet it has occurred in other worlds. The journey back to freedom from such a position is quite difficult. We hope that this will not be your fate, and that is why we are here giving you this information. As we have said, there are enough people in the world who can respond to offset the intentions of the visitors and to thwart their influence on human affairs and human values.

~

“You speak of other worlds emerging into the Greater Community. Can you speak of successes and failures which might have bearing on our situation?”

There have been successes or we would not be here. In my case, as the speaker for our group, our world had already been greatly infiltrated before we realized the situation at hand. Our education was prompted by the arrival of a group such as ourselves, providing insight and information about our situation. We had alien resource traders in our world interacting with our government. Those who were in power at that time were persuaded that trade and commerce would be beneficial to us, for we were beginning to experience resource depletion. Though our race was united, unlike your own, we began to be wholly dependent upon the new technology and opportunities that were being presented to us. And yet as this occurred, there was a shift in the center of power. We were becoming the clients. The visitors were becoming the providers. As time went on, terms and restrictions were placed upon us, subtly at first.

Our religious focus and beliefs were also influenced by the visitors, who showed interest in our spiritual values but who wished to give us a new understanding, an understanding based upon the collective, based upon the cooperation of minds thinking alike in unison with each other. This was presented to our race as an expression of spirituality and achievement. Some were persuaded, and yet because we were well advised from our allies beyond our world, allies such as ourselves, we began to mount a resistance movement and over time were able to force the visitors to leave our world.

Since that time, we have learned a great deal about the Greater Community. The trade that we maintain is very selective, with only a few other nations. We have been able to avoid the collectives, and that has preserved our freedom. And yet our success was difficult to achieve, for there were many of us who had to die in the face of this conflict. Ours is a story of success, but not without cost. There are others in our group who have experienced similar difficulties in their interaction with intervening powers in the Greater Community. And yet because we eventually learned to travel beyond our borders, we gained alliance with one another. We were able to learn what spirituality means in the Greater Community. And the Unseen Ones, who serve our world as well, helped us in this regard to make the great transition from isolation to Greater Community awareness.

Yet there have been many failures that we are aware of. Cultures where the indigenous peoples had not established personal freedom or had not tasted the fruits of cooperation, even though they were advancing technologically, did not have a foundation to establish their own independence in the universe. Their ability to resist the collectives was very limited. Induced by promises of greater power, greater technology and greater wealth, and induced by the seeming benefits of trade in the Greater Community, their center of power left their world. In the end, they became wholly dependent upon those who supplied them and who gained control of their resources and their infrastructures.

Surely you can imagine how this could be the case. Even within your own world according to your history, you have seen smaller nations fall under the domination of greater ones. You can see this even today. Therefore, these ideas are not wholly foreign to you. In the Greater Community, as in your world, the strong will dominate the weak, if they can. This is a reality of life everywhere. And it is for this reason that we are encouraging your awareness and your preparation, in order that you may become strong and your self-determination may grow.

It may be a grave disappointment to many to understand and to learn that freedom is rare in the universe. As nations become stronger and more technological, they require greater and greater uniformity and compliance amongst their peoples. As they bridge out into the Greater Community and become involved in Greater Community affairs, the tolerance for individual expression diminishes to the point where large nations that have wealth and power are governed with a strictness and an exacting attitude that you would find abhorrent.

Here you must learn that technological advancement and spiritual advancement are not the same, a lesson that humanity has yet to learn and which you must learn if you are to exercise your natural wisdom in these matters.

Your world is greatly valued. It is rich biologically. You are sitting on a prize that you must protect if you are to be its stewards and its beneficiaries. Consider the peoples in your world who have lost their freedom because they lived in a place considered valuable by others. It is now the whole human family that is so imperiled.

~

“Because the visitors are so skilled in projecting thoughts and influencing people’s mental environment, how do we ensure ourselves that what we are seeing is real?”

The only basis for wise perception is the cultivation of Knowledge. If you believe only what you see, then you will believe only what is shown to you. There are many, we are told, that have this perspective. Yet we have learned that the wise everywhere must gain a greater vision and a greater discernment. It is true that your visitors can project images of your saints and of your religious figures. Though this is not practiced often, it certainly can be used in order to evoke commitment and dedication amongst those who are already given to such beliefs. Here your spirituality becomes an area of vulnerability where wisdom must be used.

Yet the Creator has given you Knowledge as a foundation for true discernment. You can know what you are seeing if you ask yourself if it is real. Yet to do this, you must have this foundation, and that is why the teaching in The Way of Knowledge is so fundamental to learning Greater Community Spirituality. Without this, people will believe what they want to believe, and they will rely upon what they see and what they are shown. And their potential for freedom will have been lost already, for it was never allowed to flourish in the first place.

~

“You speak about keeping Knowledge alive. How many will it take to keep Knowledge alive in the world?”

We cannot give you a number, but it must be strong enough to generate a voice within your own cultures. If this message can only be received by a few, they will not have this voice or this strength. Here they must share their wisdom. It cannot be purely for their own edification. Many more must learn of this message, many more than can receive it today.

~

“Is there a danger in presenting this message?”

There is always a danger in presenting the truth, not only in your world, but elsewhere. People gain advantage from the circumstances as they currently exist. The visitors will offer advantage to those in power who can receive them and who are not strong in Knowledge. People become accustomed to these advantages and build their lives upon them. This makes them resistant or even hostile to the presentation of truth, which calls for their responsibility in service to others and which may threaten the basis of their wealth and achievements.

This is why we are hidden and do not walk in your world. Certainly the visitors would destroy us if they could find us. But humanity may seek to destroy us as well because of what we represent, because of the challenge and the new reality that we demonstrate. Not everyone is ready to receive the truth even though it is greatly needed.

~

“Can individuals who are strong with Knowledge influence the visitors?”

The chance of success here is very limited. You are dealing with a collective of beings who have been bred to be compliant, whose whole life and experience have been encompassed and engendered by a collective mentality. They do not think for themselves. For this reason, we do not feel that you can influence them. There are few amongst the human family who have the strength to do this, and even here the possibility for success would be very limited. So the answer must be “No.” For all practical purposes, you cannot win them over.

~

“How are collectives different from a united humanity?”

Collectives are made up of different races and of those who are bred to serve those races. Many of the beings that are being encountered in the world are bred by collectives to be servants. Their genetic heritage has long been lost to them. They are bred to serve, as you breed animals to serve you. The human cooperation that we are promoting is a cooperation that preserves the self-determination of individuals and provides a position of strength from which humanity can interact, not only with the collectives but with others who will visit your shores in the future.

A collective is based upon one belief, one set of principles and one authority. Its emphasis is complete allegiance to an idea or an ideal. Not only is this engendered in the education of your visitors, but in their genetic code as well. That is why they behave in the ways that they do. This is both their strength and their weakness. They have great strength in the mental environment because their minds are united. But they are weak because they cannot think for themselves. They cannot deal with complexities or adversity very successfully. A man or woman of Knowledge would be incomprehensible to them.

Humanity must unite to preserve its freedom, but this is a very different establishment from the creation of a collective. We call them “collectives” because they are collectives of different races and nationalities. Collectives are not one race. Though there are many races in the Greater Community that are ruled by a dominant authority, a collective is an organization that spans beyond the allegiance of one race to its own world.

Collectives can have great power. Yet because there are many collectives, they tend to compete with one another, which prevents any one of them from becoming dominant. Also, various nations in the Greater Community have long-standing disputes with one another, which are difficult to bridge. Perhaps they have competed for a long time for the same resources. Perhaps they compete with one another to sell the resources that they have. Yet a collective is a different matter. As we are saying here, it is not based upon one race and one world. They are the result of conquest and domination. That is why your visitors are comprised of different races of beings at different levels of authority and command.

~

“In other worlds that have successfully unified, did they maintain their individual freedom of thought?”

To varying degrees. Some to a very high degree, others less so, depending upon their history, their psychological make-up and the needs of their own survival. Your life in the world has been relatively easy compared to where other races have developed. Most places where intelligent life exists have been colonized, for there are not many terrestrial planets such as your own that provide such a wealth of biological resources. Their freedom, in large part, depended upon the wealth of their environments. But they have all been successful in thwarting alien infiltration and have established their own lines of trade, commerce and communication based upon their own self-determination. This is a rare accomplishment and must be earned and protected.

~

“What will it take to achieve human unity?”

Humanity is very vulnerable in the Greater Community. This vulnerability, in time, can foster a fundamental cooperation amongst the human family, for you must join and unite in order to survive and to advance. This is part of having a Greater Community awareness. If this is based upon the principles of human contribution, freedom and self-expression, then your self-sufficiency can become very strong and very rich. But there must be greater cooperation in the world. People cannot live for themselves alone or put their own personal goals above and beyond the needs of everyone else. Some may view this as a loss of freedom. We see it as a guarantee for future freedom. For given the current attitudes prevalent in the world today, your future freedom would be very difficult to secure or maintain. Take heed. Those who are driven by their own selfishness are the perfect candidates for foreign influence and manipulation. If they are in positions of power, they will give over their nation’s wealth, their nation’s freedom and their nation’s resources in order to gain advantage for themselves.

Therefore, greater cooperation is required. Surely you can see this. Surely this is apparent even within your own world. But this is very different from the life of the collective, where races have been dominated and controlled, where those who are compliant are brought into the collectives and those who are not are alienated or destroyed. Surely such an establishment, though it may have considerable influence, cannot be beneficial for its members. And yet this is the path that many in the Greater Community have taken. We do not wish to see humanity fall into such an organization. That would be a great tragedy and a loss.

~

“How is the human perspective different from yours?”

One of the differences is that we have developed a Greater Community perspective, which is a less self-centered way of looking at the world. It is a point of view that gives great clarity and can provide great certainty regarding the smaller problems that you face in your daily affairs. If you can solve a great problem, you can solve lesser ones. You have a great problem. Every human being in the world faces this great problem. It can unite you and enable you to overcome your long-standing differences and conflicts. It is that great and that powerful. This is why we say there is a possibility for redemption within the very circumstances that threaten your well-being and your future.

We know that the power of Knowledge within the individual can restore that individual and all of their relationships to a higher degree of accomplishment, recognition and ability. You must discover this for yourself.

Our lives are very different. One of the differences is that our lives are given to service, a service that we have chosen. We have the freedom to choose and thus our choice is real and meaningful and is based upon our own understanding. Amongst our group are representatives from several different worlds. We have come together in service to humanity. We represent a greater alliance that is more spiritual in nature.

~

“This message is coming through one man. Why aren’t you contacting everybody if this is so important?”

It is merely a matter of efficiency. We do not control who is selected to receive us. That is a matter for the Unseen Ones, those whom you could rightly call “Angels.” We think of them in this way. They have selected this person, a person who has no position in the world, who is not recognized in the world, an individual who has been chosen because of his qualities and because of his heritage in the Greater Community. We are glad to have one through whom we can speak. If we spoke through more, they perhaps would disagree with one another, and the message would become confused and lost.

We understand, from our own studenthood, that the transmission of spiritual wisdom is generally given through one, with the support of others. This individual must bear the weight and the burden and the risk of being so chosen. We respect him for doing this, and we understand what a burden it can be. This will be misconstrued, perhaps, and that is why the wise must remain hidden. We must remain hidden. He must remain hidden. In this way, the message can be given, and the messenger can be preserved. For there will be hostility towards this message. The visitors will oppose it and are opposing it already. Their opposition can be significant but will primarily be aimed at the messenger himself. It is for this reason that the messenger must be protected.

We know that the answers to these questions will generate more questions. And many of these cannot be answered, perhaps even for a long time. The wise anywhere must live with questions that they cannot yet answer. It is through their patience and their perseverance that real answers emerge and that they are able to experience them and embody them.




1–7: Final Words


Humanity is at a new beginning. It is faced with a grave situation. The need for a new education and understanding is paramount. We are here to serve this need at the request of the Unseen Ones. They are relying upon us to share our wisdom, for we live in the physical universe, as do you. We are not angelic beings. We are not perfect. We have not achieved great heights of spiritual awareness and accomplishment. And therefore our message to you about the Greater Community, we trust, will be more relevant and more easily received. The Unseen Ones know far more than we about life in the universe and about the levels of advancement and accomplishment that are available and that are practiced in many places. Yet they have asked us to speak regarding the reality of physical life because we are fully engaged there. And we have learned through our own trials and errors the importance and the meaning of what we are sharing with you.Thus, we come as the Allies of Humanity, for such we are. Be thankful that you have allies that can help you and that can educate you and that can support your strength, your freedom and your accomplishment. For without this assistance, the prospect of your surviving the kind of alien infiltration that you are experiencing now would be very limited. Yes, there would be a few individuals who would come to realize the situation as it actually exists, but their numbers would not be great enough, and their voices would go unheard.

In this, we can only ask for your trust. We hope that through the wisdom of our words and through the opportunities you have to learn their meaning and relevance, that we can gain this trust over time, for you have allies in the Greater Community. You have great friends beyond this world who have suffered the challenges that you are facing now and have achieved success. Because we were assisted, we must now assist others. That is our sacred covenant. It is to this that we are firmly committed.






---------------------------
ALLIES OF HUMANITY – BOOK 2
--------------------------




2–1: The Universe into Which You Are Emerging


We give greetings. We are very pleased to have this opportunity to speak with you once again and to provide the information that we are about to impart. We understand that our first series of commentaries has generated much interest, many questions and perhaps some confusion as well. We hope in this second volume, then, to provide more insight; to address some of these questions, if they can be answered; and to provide for you a window into the greater universe in which you live so that you may see beyond the confines of your own world into the reality of life in the Greater Community. This is a necessary part of your education now, for your world is emerging into a Greater Community of intelligent life, a Greater Community in which you have always lived.

We have been sent to provide a series of briefings to help prepare humanity for this great threshold. Included in these briefings are our observations of the extraterrestrial Intervention that is occurring in the world today, why this Intervention is occurring, how it is being carried out and how it can be offset for your own well-being. This requires that you learn about life in the Greater Community so that you may become properly oriented to this new and far greater reality into which you are emerging.

Your ability to recognize the truth of what we are about to impart is absolutely fundamental for your survival, for your advancement, and indeed, for the preservation of the very freedoms that you hold most dear. For the Greater Community into which you are emerging is perhaps far different from what you may have thought before.

We have been sent to represent the allies of humanity. We are their representatives. We are not in your world, but have been observing your world from a hidden location nearby. We have not come to establish ourselves here, to build relations with the human family or to establish an economic or political liaison with your governments. We have come instead with a very simple mission. Our mission is to observe the extraterrestrial Intervention that is occurring in your world today and, given the opportunity to do so, provide the perspective that you will need to understand and to offset this Intervention and to prepare for the realities of life in the universe.

Our first series of briefings provided a general view of the Intervention, how it is being carried out and what people must come to understand in order to avoid its influence and its persuasion and to recognize its reality. And yet there are more things that you must learn regarding this in order to gain the eyes to see and to understand these things for yourself. Though this may all seem strange and new to you, it is but another demonstration of nature, nature that you understand and comprehend within your own realm.

Nearly everything we are about to impart to you and that we have imparted already can be understood from your experience of nature. That is why the extraterrestrial Intervention is not a mystery. It is a demonstration of nature. Its difficulty, however, is that it casts you in a different role than you are used to. For you are used to being pre-eminent in your own world. You are used to feeling that you have the great evolutionary advantage within your own realm. But within the Greater Community, you do not have this pre-eminence or this advantage. Therefore, you must gain greater skill and a greater cooperation amongst yourselves.

This is both a great difficulty and a great opportunity for your race, for it is perhaps only the overshadowing of the Greater Community and the difficulties that it will confront you with that will enable humanity to unite and to find its common ground. Whether this can be accomplished remains to be seen. But the challenge is upon you and that challenge confronts the life and the future of every person living in the world today.

At one moment, this may seem strange and incomprehensible, and yet in the next moment, you can understand that this is nature being carried out. You possess an environment and resources that are valued by others who seek to use and to have these things for themselves. It is your environment that they want. It is your help that they need. They do not seek to destroy you but to have you become part of their Collective in service to them.


This must be said many times in many different ways so that you can gain a very clear understanding. As we have said, this is not a mystery. It is but a presentation of your life in the Greater Community. It is the reality of nature, which you yourself can understand. Yet you are in a different position now, and this requires strength, discernment and human cooperation and a certain kind of sobriety regarding your understanding of the nature of life in the universe.

In this, our second set of briefings, we wish to give you a greater understanding and a greater vision of what life is really like in the universe around you. It is not merely a matter of perspective. Our range of experience in these matters is very great amongst us. We have our own unique perspectives, but there are certain realities that are obvious to us, for we are in a position to see them and recognize them. We have lived through the opportunities and the difficulties of these realities — all things that you have yet to experience for yourselves. And yet your allies abroad wish to save you from the great risks that you now face, the risks of emerging into the Greater Community. They wish to show you your need to preserve your freedom and your integrity as a race as you undergo this difficult and prolonged transition.

This is the greatest challenge that any race in the universe will ever face, and its consequences will be lasting and far reaching. And yet there are great forces for good in the universe, forces that work on behalf of individual freedom and the integrity of all life, forces that seek to nurture and to keep alive the greater spiritual Knowledge that resides as a potential within all sentient beings. Your allies represent but a small expression of this greater force. For wherever there is life, there is the integrity of this spiritual Knowledge. It is not merely information; it is a living “Presence.” We wish to demonstrate the reality and the meaning of this Knowledge and why it is so very fundamental to your success in healing the wounds of your world and in meeting the one great challenge that can unite and uplift humanity.

The universe is full of life. But the universe is immense. And intelligent life living in the physical manifestation is scattered about a great and vast arena. It is concentrated in some places more than others. In some ways, this resembles the maps of your countries, where there are large areas where many human people are congregated, and there are areas where very few people live at all. Between these areas of great congregation in the universe, there are trade routes, great roads that are heavily traveled. In sparsely populated areas, there are very few routes, many of which are rarely if ever traveled.


We want to give you this analogy of the dispersal of intelligent life in this galaxy. We have never ventured beyond the galaxy, so we cannot speak of the other possibilities. Yet within this galaxy alone, there is such a diversity of life. We ourselves have only seen a very, very small part of it, for the galaxy is very great.

Your world exists in an area of congregation, an area that has many inhabited worlds. You do not see this within your own Solar System, but beyond your Solar System, this is most certainly true. You do not live in a sparsely populated part of the universe. You do not live in a region that is uncharted and unknown to others. This gives you certain disadvantages because your world is being scrutinized by many powerful forces. They are seeking an Intervention now because humanity has reached a point in its development where it has built an infrastructure that other races believe they can use for themselves. This is why the Intervention did not happen at an earlier time. It was allowed for humanity to discover the resources and build the infrastructure first. In other words, you did the work for those who believe that you will serve them in the future.

Therefore, you do not live in a distant and remote part of the galaxy. This you must understand. Travel in space occurs along certain routes or avenues, just like in your world. Certain roads are heavily traveled; others are rarely traveled. Your world exists in an area of considerable travel, which means there are many races using these routes for commerce and trade. Within this region, there are several emerging races such as your own, all being carefully watched by others.

As we have said in our previous discourses, the Greater Community into which you are emerging is a competitive environment on a scale you can hardly imagine. Trade and competition for resources, for alliances and for worlds that have strategic value, are considerable. And yet, the situation is far more complex than it might seem at first. Conquest of other lands is not tolerated in well-inhabited areas. Because of the competitive environment, there are restraints. Rules have been established over a long period of time regarding how trade will be conducted and what rules and guidelines will be followed. The violation of these rules brings retribution from one’s adversaries and competitors, and so there is a system of checks and balances. This system is generally obeyed, but as is so often the case, exceptions are sought in many different ways. It is important for you to know that it is not allowed for your world to be invaded, militarily speaking. The forces that are intervening in your world are not strong military forces. They are great commercial forces. We call them “Collectives.” And you will have an opportunity in this second set of discourses to learn more about their nature and structure.

In order for economic powers to gain access to your world and to gain control of your world, they must use more subtle means — means of persuasion, means of inducement. They must make it appear that you want them to be here, to welcome them, to want what they have to offer, to seek their assistance and their initial offerings. They want you to believe that you need them and that without them, you cannot succeed. In this way, they satisfy the restraints that are placed upon them. In this way, they can gain control of your world according to the rules that have been established.

The persuasion and the inducement that will be placed upon your world are very powerful and very compelling. Many people, by their own inclinations and by the weakness of their own position in life, will be very attracted to this persuasion. And yet, it is but a deception. It is a seduction. Then seemingly with humanity’s general approval, the Intervention can begin and can be fulfilled without violating any restrictions that prevent invasion, conquest, and so forth.


If your world existed in a very remote or uncharted area, an area where these kinds of rules of trade and conduct had not been established, then military conquest would be attempted, for there would be nothing to prevent it from happening. But those who seek to take advantage of this world do not engage in military conquest. They do not need to. It is not their emphasis. It is not their purpose. They are not organized to do this.

They rely upon your weakness, as you must learn to rely upon your strength. They rely upon your lack of confidence in the human spirit, as you must learn to rely upon this spirit within yourselves. Their presence here holds great dangers for humanity and great opportunities if humanity can respond responsibly and wisely.

Therefore, it is our desire and our intention to help you in this preparation by giving you a perspective and an orientation to the reality that you are now facing and that you will face continuously from this time forward. For there is no returning to your former isolated state. Now you must learn to value and to protect your freedom, to consolidate your freedom and to build your freedom in an environment where that freedom will be under constant challenge. Only a world that is strong and united and wise in its dealings with the Greater Community can maintain its autonomy and remain free in the universe. This is true of all free worlds, whether they exist in areas of congregation or whether they exist in remote areas that are rarely visited.

This is nature. Because other worlds have created greater levels of technology does not change the realities of life. It only makes the interactions between worlds more complicated and often more difficult to discern. It is easier to recognize a military confrontation than it is to recognize the hidden intent of those who come seeming to bear gifts and answers and the marvels of technology.

Humanity is without education regarding the Greater Community. And that is why you are so vulnerable. Humanity is divided amongst its nations and its cultures. And that is why you are so vulnerable. Your dispositions and your religious beliefs cannot prepare you adequately for what faces you now.

In the Greater Community, there are many races who have achieved very high levels of maturity in their spiritual understanding and have achieved a state of freedom that humanity has not yet come even close to achieving. Unlike those who are visiting you, these societies do not involve themselves in interplanetary trade to a very great degree, if at all. They are not involved in exploration. They are not resource explorers. They do not seek to gain alliances for political and economic advantage, except in certain situations for their own defense. They do not exploit other worlds. They do not seek to seduce young races who are emerging into the Greater Community. They do not engage in war. They are not part of Collectives.

Your allies, whom we represent, demonstrate this establishment, the establishment of free races. This freedom is very difficult to achieve and to maintain in the universe. To function successfully in the Greater Community, you must be self-sufficient. You must be united. And you must be very discreet. Do you see these qualities demonstrated in the human family at this time? Are they demonstrated within you and in your relationships? We are imparting to you a greater Wisdom, a Wisdom that has been difficult for us to achieve, that we have achieved at great cost. Our ability to be here to assist humanity is a demonstration of this achievement. For unlike those intervening in your world at this time, we seek only to observe and to advise. Once our transmissions are complete, we will have to withdraw for our own safety. For we are here without any official permission from trading authorities, overseeing organizations, anything like this. If those who are intervening in your world were to discover us, we would surely perish.

With the presentation of our first set of briefings, our own safety now is imperiled. Those races who are intervening in your world have already begun a search of your Solar System for us. Therefore, we must impart this information and then withdraw to a point far beyond your world, to a place where we can no longer observe the Intervention directly. That is why we must give this information to you now. That is why you must seek to learn it and to use it to the very best of your ability. For once we depart, there can be no further direct assistance to you.

That is why we give these briefings the greatest importance. That is why you must receive them and recognize them to be such. We will provide to you what you need to know regarding the nature of the Collectives, how they function, why they are here and what they are doing in the world. We will give you an overview of the realities of intelligent life in the universe and how interactions actually do occur. We shall give you a perspective on the strategic importance of your world and where it stands in relation to other inhabited worlds in your proximity. We shall also speak of the greater Spiritual Powers that exist in the universe and within the human family.

Your isolation is now over. You will never have it again in the ways that you have known it previously. Therefore, listen carefully to all the things we are about to tell you.




2–2: Why the Intervention is Occurring


You may well ask at the outset, “Why is our world being visited? Why is there an Intervention?” There are several answers to these fundamental questions, some of which are obvious, and some are not.

Obviously, you live in a beautiful world with great biological diversity. It is a world that has not been destroyed through exploitation, though it is in danger of being so. It is a world that contains immense biological resources, life-giving resources, resources that are rare and difficult to find in a Greater Community of barren worlds. You, of course, do not yet realize the value of your own world. Having never lived abroad, you cannot yet appreciate the marvel of the world that you live in and why it is so valuable to others. But consider this: You live in a world with a remarkably temperate environment and tremendous biological beauty and diversity. You live in a world that has enormous water resources. You live in a world that has large tracts of habitable land for those races that can breathe your atmosphere. You have a world now that has a human presence and infrastructure that can be incorporated into foreign technologies. You belong to a race of people which is intelligent, although superstitious and ignorant of life in the universe, thus making you malleable and susceptible to persuasion and inducement. You live in a virtual paradise. This is how your world is perceived.

When we first came to your world and observed it from a close proximity, we were amazed. It is far more beautiful and rich than we had imagined. Though we have never been on the surface of your world, we can see even from our vantage point what a glorious place it must be. We have seen interventions such as the one occurring in your world happening in worlds of far less value and merit. So, certainly your world is like a prize. The question is whether you will defend it, protect it and maintain it. If you do not, others will surely take it from you. Have you not already seen this in the history of your own world when tribes and indigenous peoples were overcome by foreign powers seeking advantage, and how the great wealth that these indigenous peoples possessed, even unknown to them, made their land and their world so valuable to others? Have you not seen this? Has this not been demonstrated in your world countless times? It is being so demonstrated even at this moment.

Now you are the indigenous peoples. And powerful, intervening forces are coming into your world seeking to establish themselves through subtle means, seeking to unite with humanity in spirit and in flesh, seeking to gain a foundation here from which they can establish their own authority and pre-eminence. Your world is so attractive, surely you can see that such an Intervention can occur if you think about it.

To the Collectives, who live mostly in technological environments, such a world is grand, spectacular and useful. Yet they are not driven by an artistic appreciation of your world. They are driven by the need for your world’s resources. They see it as a prize, the best amongst many. They are surveying it even at this moment.

The advent of nuclear weapons in your world triggered the Intervention to go into its mature phase, for they realize that should you become stronger and have greater technological power, then the Intervention would be more difficult to achieve. They would have you believe that they are intervening to save you from your own self-destruction, but really they are seeking to intervene before the situation becomes too difficult. You have become powerful, but not yet powerful enough. They see your world’s environment being destroyed, and they feel they cannot wait.


These are perhaps the obvious reasons why your world is undergoing an Intervention. But what about the reasons that are not so obvious? Let us speak of these now.

Unknown to all but a few individuals in the world today, there are important secret depositories in your world, for your world has been used by even gracious societies to hide things of value deep within it. For millennia your world has been a safe haven for the storage of sacred and powerful items. There are some in the hierarchy of the Collectives who know of this. And that is why they give your world special importance. That is why they seek to use individuals in your world who have psychic abilities in order to gain access to those individuals who have an intrinsic knowledge of these important hidden treasures.

After all, your world, with its vast biological resources, is an exquisite place to hide things, small things, things that can be buried deep underground in places that would be very difficult to discover. And because native peoples were superstitious and have sparsely populated the earth for so long, many things of value have been stored here.

If you were to discover these things, well, perhaps they would seem of little value or use to you, for you have not the skill or the Knowledge to use them. But should they be discovered by you, this would make you extremely vulnerable in the Greater Community, for in one moment, you would have something that so many others would want. You would not have the skill or the means to protect what you had just discovered, and it would bring tremendous attention to your world, attention that you would not want.

This is why the wise remain hidden in the universe. This is why objects of power, even wisdom itself, must be protected and guarded. It is the same in your world, surely. The wisest are the most hidden. Those who have the greatest Knowledge are the hardest to find, except by those who are meant to find them.

Some of these depositories have been destroyed through the natural cycles of your earth’s evolution. They have been destroyed through natural events. But some still exist. And because the Intervention is under way, those who have stored these things long ago cannot return for their own safety.


This is why it is true that humanity has been visited for a very long time. But there has never been an Intervention of this magnitude or this nature before. This may be confusing to some people, for they think that the Intervention is but another expression of an ongoing visitation and an ongoing alien presence in the world, but it is not really true. You do not yet have the skill to discern friend from foe, your allies from your adversaries, except through demonstration, and even here it would take a deeper insight to make this determination. Some people will think that we are humanity’s adversaries and that those intervening are humanity’s allies. This is so obviously untrue, but it is not obvious to you. For you are without wisdom and awareness in these matters, and that is why we have come.

Your world contains, then, great treasures — great treasures in its biological diversity, in its water resources, in its temperate environment and in its hidden treasures. Yet there is another reason that the world is valuable. This would not be obvious to you, for you could not recognize this from your vantage point. And that is that the world is in a strategic position that is valuable to other races.

To understand this, you would have to have an overview of competition between Collectives and the economic and political establishments in the region in which you live. There are many participants. There are conflicts, though war rarely exerts itself. Competition is carried out in more subtle and ingenious means, for technology can be shared, copied and purchased. It is power in the Mental Environment, the power of persuasion and the power of insight, that holds the greatest advantage here. Humanity does not yet realize this, for it is still brutish in the exertion of its powers. But your education about the Greater Community must begin at some time. And surely this is the time!

Your world’s strategic position adds to its importance. There are several Collectives competing for pre-eminence in your world. They are competing with one another, though they are not at war. We are certain that you can think of examples of this within your own world. For example, many nations in your world could compete for the riches of a poorer country. Such competition is occurring now, and that is why the Intervention has many faces. That is why you will see many different kinds of craft hovering above your lands. You will encounter different races of beings, and it will be very confusing, and you will think, “Some are good, and some are bad. Some are here to help, and some maybe are not here to help.” But you are only guessing. And it is only your hopeful expectations that would encourage you to think that anyone who is on the surface of your world is here for your good.

Your allies will not intrude. Your allies will not seek to manipulate you or give you power that you cannot yet assume or give you technologies that you cannot yet use constructively. Your allies do not seek to conquer you or to make you part of their associations.

Before you can advance in the Greater Community, first you must survive. And to survive, you must unite and protect your world from interventions such as is occurring here now. If you can secure your freedom, then Intervention will be very difficult to achieve, by legal means, at least. And you will have to become a power to be reckoned with, rather than a feeble race that is stewarding a beautiful planet.

We believe in the great truth and power that exist in the human heart, or we would not have made the long journey to come here, or placed ourselves at such great risk to spend these years observing the Intervention and its activities. Your allies believe in the promise of humanity.


However, such respect you will find rare in the Greater Community. For as is true in so many places, your value and your worth will be determined by what you own, what you can trade, what you can sell, what you can surrender. This is life. This is nature. Technology does not change this. You must learn this. If you believe that technology is your salvation, you will be saved for another race who is technologically superior to you.

Please hear our words here. We speak from great experience. We cannot prove these things to you until you can see them yourself. And when you see them yourself, it will be so obvious! The Intervention is so obvious! But who can see it? From your vantage point, it is far more difficult to recognize. And until you can have a Greater Community education and perspective, until you learn about the realities of the Greater Community, how can you possibly understand? Your heart will know, but can you listen?

People want a happy outcome. People want to avoid conflict and challenge. People do not want to change, necessarily. Yet that is not what life brings.

Humanity must become far stronger than it is today. Human freedom must be the rallying cry. So when you ask, “Why our world?” you must recognize these things that we have mentioned. What is obvious you will be able to see. What is not obvious you will not be able to see, but you can still understand. You may choose, of course, to distrust our words. You may believe that it is impossible that we could communicate to you in this way. You may doubt the whole process by which we communicate. You may cast away our counsel. We understand. But you must follow the Wisdom that lives within you to really know and if you really know, then you will know that we are being true with you.

This is where the real proof will occur. If you seek a proof in demonstration only, well, you can be persuaded of many things. But only Knowledge within you can be persuaded by the truth itself. It cannot be deceived. This is your strongest and greatest hope. This is the greatest power in the universe, and your visitors do not use it. This is the key. Learn The Way of Knowledge and you will have the key. If you want things to be shown to you, well, you will be led astray. You will be persuaded by other powers. You will follow what you want instead of what you truly know. The world will be given away. And the occupation will become complete.

You live at a critical moment, perhaps the greatest moment in your world’s history. You have come at a great time. Is this an accident? Is it a mistake? Or was it meant to be this way? You who may be unsettled in your life, seeking a greater reality and a greater meaning, surely you must consider this. You are the indigenous peoples of a world that is being visited for the purpose of conquest and domination. How will you respond?

The choice is yours. We can only advise. No one in the Greater Community is going to come and rescue you. The wise do not do that. Perhaps you question this and say, “Why not?” You must trust us in this matter because should we intervene in a military fashion, should we gather the strength to do that, our worlds would be jeopardized. We would be functioning outside our jurisdiction, violating the rules of conduct of that jurisdiction. Can you see this?

Even so, if humanity is to become strong and independent in the universe, it must establish its own strength and independence. It cannot be rescued. What is confronting you is the reality of life in the universe. It is not an evil power. It is not a sinister force. It is just the strong taking advantage of the weak, if it can. That is nature. That is life. Until you reach a greater spiritual understanding, an understanding of Knowledge, then that is the life that is real. Knowledge is as rare in the universe as it is within your own world.

Many people place all their hope on being saved by a greater race. How will they know their allies from their adversaries? They are but ripe for the Intervention. They will seek to unite with the Intervention, believing it will save humanity from itself, believing what your visitors themselves believe, for they are convinced that humanity is far too unruly, disorganized and unworthy even to live in such a valuable place.

You cannot have a fanciful, romantic view of life in the universe if you are to understand it and prepare for it accordingly. You must have wisdom and sobriety. You must be without self-deception in this matter. You are living in an environment of tremendous persuasion, not only persuasion between people but persuasion from forces in the Greater Community that are in your midst. How will you overcome and offset this influence in your life? We must be emphatic and repetitive in what we are emphasizing because we want to assist you in overcoming these influences that would keep you in a state of confusion or ambivalence regarding the very forces that are threatening your well-being at this time.

You have never been in a situation like this before. Certainly you have never faced an Intervention of this magnitude. People will deny its existence. They will laugh at it. They will scorn it. They do not want it to be true. They do not want it to be real. But that does not change the reality.

Since our first set of briefings, we understand that many people have asked about our names and our identities, where we have come from, and so forth, as if they must know these things in order to trust our words. But we cannot impart them, for we must remain hidden or we will be in great danger, and your allies who have sent us to be near the world will be in great danger as well.


The trust must come from a deeper understanding. It is not information you need as much as perspective. If you cannot see the situation clearly, what good is having more information? If you cannot know the truth in your own heart, what will the information provide for you? You need a little information. You need a lot of perspective. And you need a lot of courage.

Why is your world being visited? Why is there an Intervention? Think of these things, and you will see clearly. It is so obvious.




2–3: The Influence Upon Humanity


It is vital for us to talk now about the nature of the inducement that is being placed upon humanity. Because this is an Intervention and not a visitation and because its overall aim and goal is domination of your world and the subjugation of the human race, the methods that will be employed will be used to encourage, to induce and to seduce humanity into a cooperative, subservient role to your visitors. Because your visitors are not allowed to invade this world outright, they must use these methods. Because there is more than one Collective functioning in the world seeking to attain this goal, they will all use these methods. In this, Collectives operate in much the same way.

Because they do not venture into uncharted or distant territories, the Collectives must maintain their focus where they have a concentration of power and where their organization can function effectively. In this, they have become quite adept in using the powers of persuasion. Their primary focus beyond their normal avenues of trade and commerce is to gain access to emerging worlds such as yours and to new mineral and biological discoveries in the regions in which they are dominant. In most regions, Collectives are prevented from having a military presence beyond their own security forces. As a result, they must engage in more subtle and more time-consuming activities. And yet this is seen by them as appropriate here because they want humanity’s cooperation. They cannot function in the world without your help. They cannot breathe your atmosphere. They cannot gain access to your resources. They cannot live upon the surface of your world effectively, and so in order to take full advantage of the resources of your world and the strategic position of your world, they must have human assistance.

Indeed, beyond this, the Collectives that are functioning in the world today want to add a human component to their collective community and mentality. It is not simply that they want you to be a work force for them; they want you to become a part of them. This adds to their collective strength and will minimize any resistance in the future that humanity might mount for its own sake. This is why there is such a great investment of time and energy in gaining human allegiance, in bonding with humanity through interbreeding and in establishing a deep and pervasive association with the human family.

This world is so valuable that the Intervention does not want to risk a human revolution in the future. Such revolutions have happened before. We can attest to this from our own experience. We are the product of such revolutions in our own worlds. Though our circumstances were quite different from yours, the nature of the Intervention and the methods employed were actually quite similar. This is why we can speak with authority on this subject.

The inducements that will be brought to bear will be varied, depending on who is being reached and for what purpose. For individuals who are deemed receptive and cooperative in the halls of government, the inducement will be the promise of greater power and technology. Humanity is in a very vulnerable position in this sense because its belief in technology and its hope that technology will solve all of its problems are very, very strong. This of course has been supported by the Intervention because this is one of the primary avenues in which humanity will likely become dependent on the Intervention itself.


To those in the corridors of power in your governments, those individuals who are deemed receptive and cooperative, the promise of greater technology and even world dominion will be presented. This can be presented either through the Mental Environment as ideas sent into the minds of these individuals, or, as has already occurred, there may be face-to-face encounters with the visitors themselves.

And what will they offer humanity? They will offer humanity some of their basic technology, certainly nothing that they consider to be advanced, unique, secret or sacred to them — basic propulsion in space, basic use of electronic energy, methodologies of production. They will not teach power in the Mental Environment, for they do not want humanity to have this power unless it is completely controlled and directed by the visitors themselves.

And who in your corridors of power could resist such a temptation? Many will succumb. They will see in these offerings wealth, power, control, domination and enormous advantage over their fellow humans and over other nations with whom they are competing directly. Only those individuals whose Knowledge is strong will be able to recognize the deception and resist the temptation presented in these inducements.

People in positions of great economic power and wealth, if they are deemed cooperative and receptive, will be reached as well. And again, who amongst them can resist such a temptation, such a promise of wealth, power and control? And yet these inducements are but a deception — a means of engaging other people in the activities of the Collective, a means of establishing a strong liaison. Those people who are contacted, those individuals who fall prey to this deception, will not understand the real meaning behind it. And whatever strength and power is given to them will only be a temporary bestowal.

As we have said, the visitors need human assistance. They also need human leadership. The Collectives do not have that many individuals functioning in this world, and so they need a hierarchy of human authority to serve them. They need the infrastructures you have already built. This again is why they did not visit at an earlier time. This is why the Intervention has been delayed until this era in human development. The Intervention needs governments; it needs religions; it needs all of this functioning structure through which its organization can flow.

Therefore, at the outset they must gain alliances. They must gain followers. They must gain assistance from individuals, especially those whom they deem to be in positions of power and authority. We have already spoken of this in the first set of our briefings. And yet it needs to be repeated, for you must understand that these things are happening and have happened already.

There are those individuals in positions of power in commerce and government who are already in liaison with the Intervention. Their numbers will grow, and their strength and influence will grow if the Intervention is not stopped and if public education cannot be successfully generated.

The next group of individuals who have been targeted are leaders of your religious organizations. Those amongst them who are deemed receptive and cooperative will be targeted and ideas and information will flow into their minds until such time as a direct encounter can be arranged. What will be offered to each of them is the promise that their particular religious organization and teaching will become predominant in a new world order. And even beyond that, it will be promised to each of them that their religious teaching, being greater than the others, will be able to extend beyond the world and have influence in the Greater Community itself. What devout religious leader could resist this temptation to have their tradition grow and extend even beyond the confines of this world? Not all leaders will be contacted. Only those who are deemed to be receptive and cooperative and who could become sympathetic and functional within the Intervention itself.


Interventions are part of your own human history. We understand that such things have happened countless times. As greater nations attempt to overtake weaker ones, they seek to seduce the leaders of those weaker groups and nations with promises of power and authority and gifts of technology, mere trinkets. How effective this has been. Yet this is not unique to your world. It happens throughout the universe.

Leaders of your religious organizations will be given the promise of pre-eminence in your world. Even their beliefs will be acknowledged, yet this is but deception again. The visitors do not care about your religions. They believe they are only the folly and the superstitions of humanity. Having no religion of their own that you could possibly recognize and understand, they will seek to use yours in order to garner your allegiance to them. The Collectives believe this is entirely ethical, for they believe that humanity will destroy the world without their Intervention. This is of course untrue, but this is their belief. And they feel that such methods are needed to secure the end that they are attempting to achieve. The Collectives justify these behaviors because they believe in the superiority of their race and in the necessity of their mission here in the world.

Their thought is, “Why let the natives ruin the world when we can run it for them and we can teach them the great value and benefit of our collective community?” This is why you must not view the Intervention in a superstitious manner. The visitors are not angels, and they are not demons. They are driven by the same needs that drive humanity, and they will employ many of the same techniques that humanity has attempted to employ, though on a far lesser scale, in order to achieve their goals.

Next, the inducement will be focused upon two distinct groups of individuals. Actually, these are not groups of individuals, but really classifications, of individuals. The first are those who are considered psychic and sensitive. The inducement here is to validate their sensitivity and to induce them into the collective mind of the Intervention itself. Here these individuals will be encouraged to support the Intervention, and their own beliefs regarding the frailties and the sinfulness of humanity will be encouraged. And their hope that some greater power from beyond the world will come to rescue humanity from its own demise will be greatly encouraged. Here it will be taught to them that they are part of a greater association of life that is demonstrated by the Intervention itself. Here their religious views and aspirations will be encouraged but directed towards the Collectives.

These individuals will be told to trust in the extraterrestrial presence that is in the world, that it is here to uplift humanity, to transform humanity, and to rescue humanity from its own errors. They will be encouraged to become its representatives, to become its speakers, to inspire others to give their faith and their trust to the extraterrestrial presence and to become part of this movement in consciousness, this great evolutionary change that is occurring in their midst. Yet these individuals, without knowing the real nature or intentions of the Intervention, will unwittingly become its speakers and its representatives. Having become part of the visitors’ Pacification Program, these people will now pacify others and bring them to the Intervention.

So while the visitors seek liaison with individuals in positions of power in government and religion, they also seek to establish emissaries throughout the human population. For those sensitive individuals who cannot become receptive to and cooperative with the Intervention, their skills and abilities will be thwarted and offset. If such individuals begin to gain an insight into the real nature of the Intervention, they can become the target of real mental disruption. In addition, amongst the sensitives and the psychics, there will be a search for those few individuals living in the world today who have an inborn and intuitive awareness of the depositories. The search for these individuals is underway.

The visitors understand that the key to human allegiance is the quest for power, wealth and spiritual fulfillment. Here people will operate against their own best interests if they believe that their activities are ordained and supported by a greater power. We have spoken of this already in our first series of discourses. Yet again we must elaborate on this point. Perhaps you will see those who claim to be psychic and sensitive being supportive and encouraging people to trust and to believe in the presence of the visitors, believing that the visitors represent a spiritual awareness, a spiritual force, even evolution itself. The visitors will tell them, “Look, we have no war. We live in peace and cooperation. You have not achieved these things. Therefore, trust that we are able to give them to you and teach you the ways of cooperation and teach you how to live in peace, harmony and equanimity.”

Who amongst the idealistic can resist such a temptation, having lost faith in the human spirit? Having disavowed human institutions to a certain extent, they now look to the heavens for help, for inspiration and for salvation itself. And when they are taken by the visitors or contacted by the visitors, such predispositions put them in the perfect position to become receptive to the Intervention and to become emissaries for the Intervention.

Those who will not cooperate will be given confusing information. They can even be tormented mentally unless they call upon the power of the Unseen Ones, the Angelic Presence, to help them. And they must gain a strong position of resistance to the Intervention with a real understanding of its motives. Our words will give them strength and encouragement. This in part is why our message is so urgently needed in the world today.

The next group who will be contacted will be those who are zealous representatives of their own religious traditions. Their fundamentalism is very close in many respects to the philosophy and the mentality of the Collectives. The Collectives support only one view of reality and only one view of community, and they hold this in reverence almost to the point of it being a religious emphasis. Those people who are zealous, especially those who are filled with anger and resentment against the world and against those who they see oppose them, will become prime candidates to espouse a cooperation with the Collectives and the destruction of those who stand against the Collectives.

This is a very difficult and dangerous situation, for the visitors will use human allegiance and their human emissaries to carry out their destructive activities in the world. It will not be the visitors who will destroy those who will not and cannot cooperate. It will be the visitors’ human counterparts, their human representatives, who will carry out such destruction. In this way, the real nature and purpose of the Intervention remains hidden and such acts of violence will simply be attributed to human error and to human violence and demonstrate the need for the Intervention. For the visitors again will say, “Look at these terrible acts of violence! We are not violent. We do not come with weapons of war. We do not destroy you. This is the result of human ignorance and human depravity. We will teach you how to outgrow all of these things.” So even the violence that is perpetrated by the Intervention will be used by the visitors to support their superiority and to contribute to the illusion that they themselves do not use deception, manipulation or force to gain their advantage.

Clearly, there are individuals in your world who are very zealous in representing their religious beliefs and aspirations. The Unseen Ones have told us much about this, and we of course have seen this in many other worlds. It is not unique to humankind. Yet it is a form of blind passion, and blind passion fueled by anger and hostility becomes a consuming force for the individual, a force which can be highly manipulated and is vulnerable to usurpation by the Intervention itself.

Such zealous people will rally a movement of strict adherence and will draw out those who oppose such a strict adherence. Violence will be wrought upon the unbelievers, and they shall be cast aside. In this way, through the eyes of the Intervention, those who oppose the Intervention and those who cannot willingly support it will be identified and will be sorted out amongst the many people who dwell in your world. And the sifting will happen at the level of human interaction. In this way, the visitors will recognize their true adversaries and their potential adversaries. And having gained now a network of human representatives who are zealous in supporting and advancing their religious causes, the Intervention will use these individuals as the medium through which violence will be perpetrated. All the while, the visitors will remain seemingly above and beyond such activity and behavior.

You may stop at this point and wonder, “Well, how can such things occur? This seems so extreme! This seems so negative, so awful!” But for anyone who has studied human history, you will see demonstrations of all of these things we are speaking of — religious manipulation, interbreeding, violence wrought upon adversaries, particularly in situations where native populations are encouraged to accept and to receive their new visitors. It is far easier to govern one who believes in your cause and is cooperative than it is one who is simply being subjugated. Humanity has great strength to throw off the shackles of subjugation. And so the Intervention will seek to use these inducements to gain as much cooperation and as much belief in their presence and in their cause as is possible. They will employ individuals in positions of power, those who have great sensitivities and psychic abilities and those who are zealous representatives of their religious traditions, to foster and generate such cooperation.

For the vast majority of people in your world, the Intervention will be unknown and completely hidden. Yet for those who become aware of it, either because they have been taken, or because they have witnessed evidence of the Intervention in your world, these individuals will either be encouraged to believe and to support the Intervention or they will be cast aside and tormented by it. Already, there are individuals in your world, we understand, who have been cast aside and who are tormented, who have seen and felt and recognized things that they cannot incorporate into their understanding. Finding no compassion amongst their human fellows, they deteriorate into depression and into self-disassociation.


Here the visitors attempt to either bond you to them or try to switch you off. Only one who is strong with Knowledge will be able to resist the inducement and to find insulation and freedom from torment. That is why learning The Way of Knowledge must be encouraged.

Here you must learn to counteract your own tendencies to want to see a good outcome and take a hopeful position, which makes you vulnerable to persuasion and manipulation. You must see with clear eyes, sober eyes, without hope and fear, but with a clarity of Knowledge within you. If you can gain this awareness, all that we are telling you and all that we are reminding you of will become so evident to you. You do not need to be living in space to see these things. You do not need to have traveled around the Greater Community to understand what is occurring in your world. But you do need assistance. You do need a larger perspective. You do need a greater understanding. You need the encouragement to see clearly and not to give over your mind, your heart or your world to any force that promises you peace, power, freedom or equanimity. For these things must be born of your own nature and your own activities. They cannot be forced upon you or even given to you. You must achieve them and build them yourselves.

At this point, at the outset, you must become informed. And you must become sober and wise. You may doubt our words, yet you will not find such a reassurance anywhere else, for we are the only representatives of your allies. The other extraterrestrial forces who are actually involved in your world, though they may try to present themselves as the allies and the saviors of humanity, are only here to gain your allegiance and to take control of your world. You have no friends amongst them. The situation is very clear but very difficult, very challenging. It is not ambiguous. Though you have many questions about life in the Greater Community and the reality of the Intervention itself, many questions that even we cannot answer successfully, you can still see clearly what is happening and mount the necessary effort to resist it. You have the individual and collective power to do this.

Though the visitors have a superior technology, the success of their entire mission rests upon their ability to persuade and to encourage human allegiance. You have the power to resist this. You have the power to see through the deception. It is not technology that you need now but awareness, discernment and inner conviction. The situation is very clear, if you can see it, and once you see it, you will have no doubt as to what is occurring, and you will look about and you will see with great concern how others are mindlessly going along, or even encouraging the very thing that will take from humanity its own freedom and self-determination.

As we have said, this whole phenomenon is not some mystical or complex situation that is beyond human understanding. It is nature being acted out subtly, with great skill. It is a greater power trying to take advantage of a weaker one. Such an activity will either succeed or fail, depending upon the strength and the determination of the weaker force. The Collectives are prevented from simply taking over your world. Their competitors will not allow it, and the ruling organizations that govern commerce and trade in this region in which your world resides, will not permit it. A Collective will function according to the rules, but beyond those rules it will use any means it can to secure its goals and to fulfill its mission.

Great inducement is being placed upon the world. It has many avenues of expression and emphasis. Yet it is all aimed at one goal — to move humanity to a position of trust, allegiance and subservience to the Intervention itself. This completely conceals the real nature of the occupation that is being attempted in your world. This occupation will become easily recognized once it is fully established, yet by then it will be too late for you to offset its influences without great struggle and sacrifice.

Therefore, we urge you and strongly encourage you to place this phenomenon at the forefront of your awareness and attention. You have time to stop the Intervention. It can be stopped. You have the power and the collective strength to do this. It is not technology that is your disadvantage. It is ignorance. It is greed. It is hostility. It is naivete. These are the things that will undermine humanity’s strength. It is these things that will enable the world to be overtaken without war and without violence being carried out on a large scale. But it is the power of Knowledge within you that will make all the difference in preventing this, once you gain the eyes to see and can understand the situation clearly.




2–4: The Collectives


Societies exist in the Greater Community at every conceivable level of social and spiritual development. This ranges from pre-agricultural societies all the way up to empires, Collectives, and other kinds of organizations established between worlds for mutual defense and trade. At every level of this evolution, there are countless expressions. Yet as we have said, there are vast regions of the galaxy that are unexplored and sparsely populated, where many societies live in secret. And there are many cultures that have never even been discovered.

In our previous discourse, we gave the analogy of the galaxy being linked together with a series of routes, like a roadmap in your world. There are major avenues of travel, there are secondary avenues of travel, and there are areas where no “roads” exist at all.

The impressions that we would like to give you regarding the Greater Community are most relevant to your position in space and are most descriptive of the environments that are in close proximity to your world. Yet your range of vision is still extremely limited, and you cannot see beyond the closest planets even in your Solar System. Your attempts at radio communication are futile because no one uses this kind of technology for interplanetary communication.

Travel in the universe is greatly accelerated by your standards but is still very slow, given the enormity of the physical landscape. Large empires and Collectives can only extend themselves where they have established an infrastructure nearby. Managing distant outposts is very difficult logistically and has other hazards regarding the intervention of other races, as well as problems with regional jurisdictions and disputes. For this reason, in sparsely populated areas of the galaxy, the Collectives will not be found. Even large empires may rarely send resource explorers to these regions, for they are far too distant, and even if discoveries could be made, the logistical problems in sending supplies and gaining access to these resources are formidable. To complicate the matter further, in more populated areas in the galaxy, there are regional rules of conduct. So nations are not that free to move anywhere they want to go in their explorations.

Of course, we cannot expect the human family to understand this. Your current perspective is that the universe is really there to be explored and to be taken for your own advantage. But, alas, you are not the first ones to arrive there. And there are many civilizations and empires that are far older than anything that humanity has established so far on Earth.


Wars and great conflicts do occur in the universe, but they are relatively rare. Rebellions and internal disputes are more common, but wars between large nations and empires in the universe are far more rare than you might think. We cannot speak for other galaxies, for we have never ventured there. But from what we know of this galaxy and of our own travels, we know these things to be quite true.

Humanity is still discovering many secrets about technology, and so this is where it places its hope and its promise. However, amongst more advanced nations, power of influence in the mental environment is the far greater arena of influence. For as we have said, technology can be purchased and copied. That is not where the real advantages will usually be found.

However, resources are valuable, and therefore, the destruction of natural environments is generally looked on with disfavor. To preserve these resources and environments, most resource explorers including Collectives will attempt to persuade the native race to come into alliance with them rather than try to overtake that race by force. This strategy is also understood by many advanced civilizations, who have learned through much trial and error and through many difficult periods in the history of their worlds. As societies become more technologically advanced, the need for resources is greater and the preservation of natural resources becomes a greater emphasis. In many cases, home worlds have outstripped their own planets’ resources, even to the point where these worlds have become barren and unproductive.

This gives evidence as to why your world is viewed with such great interest amongst those few races, relatively speaking, who are aware of you. Biologically rich, rich in resources, strategically important and accessible to many of the Collectives who live in this part of the galaxy, it is a true prize.

Your proximity to areas that are fairly well inhabited holds both a disadvantage and an advantage for you. The disadvantage, of course, is that your world will be recognized and is within reach of Collectives, which are but one form of social structure in the universe. The advantage for you, however, is that your world cannot be conquered, for you live in a region that is governed by rules of conduct. If your world existed in a very remote part of the galaxy, where such rules of conduct were not established, then your world could be taken by force. It could be taken by resource explorers, by pirates, by large nation states, by anyone who could gain access to it and maintain control and authority.

So the fact that you live in a more, shall we say, “civilized” part of the universe, does give you some degree of protection. In this region, where we also dwell, it is illegal for a new world such as yours to be invaded without the permission of the indigenous race. This means that your world cannot become a part of a larger association unless humanity demonstrates visibly that it agrees to this and that it welcomes intervention.

Because the Greater Community, especially the area in which you live, is a very competitive environment and because there are many Collectives dwelling here, they tend to hold each other in check and will take legal action against one another if necessary should the basic rules of conduct be violated. Therefore, if one Collective sought to take this world by force, it would be countered by other Collectives who have an interest in this world and by their competitors elsewhere, who would hold these kinds of actions in check.

We cannot expect you to be aware of the details of such a complex situation, but it is important for you to know that the universe around you is not empty and devoid of life. It is important for you to know that the universe near your shores is not primitive and unregulated. This will help you understand how the Collectives that are intervening in your world function and how they can be counteracted. This gives you certain advantages, which you must learn to recognize and to employ on your own behalf.

There are other parts of the universe where great empires exist, and they set their own rules, having few competitors within their regions. And there are many other areas where many nations have joined together in associations, either economic, political or military, or all three, for their mutual trade and defense. These are quite common in areas that are well inhabited in the universe.

The region in which you live, which encompasses, by your reckoning, a very vast area, contains approximately five thousand stars. We call this a region because that is how it is delineated. This is a very small part of the galaxy, as you can imagine, but quite large in terms of your interests and needs. In this region, there are important rules of conduct. You have small empires, some of which you would call dictatorships and some of which are more democratic in nature. You have Collectives, which are quite powerful but limited in certain areas of their influence. Yet within this region, all areas that are connected by main thoroughfares of trade are ruled by codes and councils. This is to provide safety and security and to assure that violence does not erupt and grow into all-out warfare. Disputes occur frequently and are handled either through negotiations or through legal procedures.

However, these governing bodies only oversee trade routes, primarily. And they are supported by organizations of states that belong to them for their own mutual benefit and security. Some of these organizations are stronger than others. Yet where you have larger competing powers, the rules of conduct are taken quite seriously and are enforced quite seriously.

In the region in which your world exists, Collectives are not allowed to have armies or military forces. They are allowed to have security forces, however, for their own defense. Being primarily economic institutions, they do seek to protect their interests and their avenues of trade with their own forces. But they do not have large armies such as you might imagine. They may hire security forces when traveling in areas that are considered unsafe for trade or which are politically unstable between resident nations. But essentially, Collectives, which we would like to take some time to describe now, are not military powers. They are economic powers. Their focus is on trade, resource acquisition and building their alliance amongst worlds such as your own.

There are many Collectives functioning in the region in which your world exists. Some of these Collectives are centered within this region. Some have centers elsewhere and have major satellite establishments here. It is an interesting fact of life that wherever Collectives exist and compete with each other, other nations have established their own defenses against them so that the Collectives cannot intervene in these worlds’ trade, commerce and internal affairs. Because we are talking about many nations within a region, many of which have their own military establishments, the Collectives then must abide by certain rules of conduct or face very grave consequences. Being without significant weaponry of their own, they must utilize negotiations, diplomacy and influence as their primary means of accomplishment.

Therefore, those whom you are encountering in the universe at this time represent highly organized, very hierarchical organizations whose function is resource acquisition and development. Collectives, by and large, are made up of a series of races functioning at different levels of authority and command. Those who really control the Collectives that are functioning in your world have probably not been encountered by anyone in the world yet. You have only recognized the worker classes who are bred to serve in specific functions. Though they are biological entities, their biological codes, their training, their upbringing and their genetic focus have given them very little individuality and individual abilities of reasoning and discernment. They function very much like, well, a collective mind. They are rigidly controlled. They have little or no personal freedom. Their areas of function are very specific and are carried out with impressive efficiency.

Yet Collectives are inherently weak because they are not built on what we call “Knowledge.” Therefore, they do not have the strength of insight. They are not creative in their approaches. They tend to mimic one another. They rely upon their structure, their codes of conduct and their ability to manipulate the thoughts and feelings of not only their members but of those races whom they seek to influence. While the Collectives are very powerful in certain respects, they do have inherent weaknesses.

Throughout history, Collectives have had great difficulty in maintaining control and authority over their resident populations because they comprise many different racial groups. The worker classes are bred to serve, but even they have certain qualities that the ruling classes of the Collectives find difficult to manage. Revolts have occurred, and Collectives have suffered great losses as a result. They are most certainly imperfect, but more fundamentally, they are not governed by Knowledge, or the power of Spirit. This means that their defenses can be penetrated, their secrets can be uncovered, their activities can be revealed and their deceptions can be comprehended by those who are strong with Knowledge and who are free to see, to know and to act.

Other nations in regions such as yours deal with the Collectives very, very carefully and do not allow them any kind of penetration into their world’s internal affairs. Sometimes the Collectives are viewed as a necessary evil to provide essential resources that are needed by these worlds. The Collectives have great craft and great skill in the areas in which they are strong. And nations which have been able to interact with them successfully have had to maintain a significant distance and be extremely discreet.


Certainly, interventions such as the one happening in your world would not be allowed by any race that understood its true interests and the realities of life in the universe. The fact that the Intervention is well underway in your world demonstrates that humanity does not have this awareness and does not have the unity or the social cohesion to resist and to offset unwarranted and unwanted interventions such as this.

We have been told that there are great economic organizations that have interests all around your globe and that employ different nations and different groups in service to these organizations. Perhaps this can serve, then, as an example. But Collectives are far larger. They may encompass hundreds of worlds and planetary establishments and exist across vast reaches of space. They can have significant control and are always interested in gaining new allegiances and new members.

Collectives are but one form of social structure in the universe. Collectives vary amongst themselves. Some are purely economic and secular in their establishment, focus, theory and philosophy. Others have religious components. However, having religious components does not mean that they are religious in nature. It simply means that part of their philosophy encompasses spirituality, to whatever degree spiritual awareness exists in their members and directs the spiritual awareness or interest, particularly amongst its ruling classes. Yet we have found with very few exceptions that Collectives consider their own survival and their own structure to be the sole focus of their devotion. Their devotion is almost religious in nature, even though their organizations rarely are. If they were strong with Knowledge, they would not be Collectives.

Fundamentally, a Collective is different from an empire in that it has no source home planet. It is a group of planets that are dissimilar which have joined together, usually through conquest and persuasion, and have become a formidable economic force. Whereas an empire is usually centered in one world or in one region by one race, Collectives are made up of many different races. We have never been able to penetrate the hierarchy of a Collective, and so we cannot speak to the composition of its leadership in terms of their racial background. But we know that they are diverse and that they manage their diversity with a strict code of ethics and a hierarchical control that you would find totally oppressive. Certainly, we could not live within such a society although in our cases, we came very close to having to do so.

True democracy, as you would call it, exists in the universe, even in great manifestations, but it is far more rare than you might think. And certainly any true democracy would have to become very strong in its dealings with the Greater Community, very careful to avoid, if possible, interactions with Collectives and other aggressive kinds of empires.

There is no one empire or Collective in the universe that is predominant. There is too much diversity and life. There is too much competition. And there have been long-standing disputes between certain nations. Advanced technology is abundant amongst many societies, so the advantages sought are not technological in nature. Though some nations are richer than others, defenses have become formidable in the universe against violent intrusion. Here again, the Collectives have certain kinds of advantages in that they do not use force. They do not rely upon a military presence to achieve their goals.

Our native worlds all exist either within the region of your world or nearby. We have all had to deal with Collectives. We have all had to deal with resource explorers from other nations. We have all had to learn to protect and secure our freedom and to become as self-sufficient as possible, in many cases relying upon one another for essential resources for our survival and well-being.

The more self-sufficient a world can become and the more that it can sustain this self-sufficiency, the stronger and the more independent it will be by nature in the universe. Often nations become dependent upon Collectives because they have exhausted their fundamental resources and must now rely upon trade and commerce for the very basic things they need to live. This, of course, makes them extremely vulnerable to usurpation, and in many cases they become parts of Collectives themselves or extremely dependent upon them.

With the deterioration of your natural environment and the rapid depletion of your essential resources, you are moving into a position of extreme vulnerability and powerlessness in the universe. This must become part of your understanding. There is little or no awareness of the realities of life, commerce and manipulation in the universe amongst your people, even amongst your governments and leaders. We have learned a great deal from your transmissions, and we have learned much from the Unseen Ones. Your world, in many respects, has problems common to emerging and developing life throughout the universe.

You have an inherent interest, then, in maintaining and sustaining your world’s fundamental resources and in regenerating these resources successfully. Without this, the Collectives will have a great advantage in their inducements. Without this, even if you resisted the Collectives, eventually you would need what they have to offer — raw materials, energy, food production, advanced technology. All these things create a state of dependency, either to a Collective or to many other kinds of states, nations and organizations that are directly involved in trade and commerce. Clearly your world would be at a great disadvantage if you could not bargain successfully for the very things that you need. Eventually, you would have to accept whatever terms are presented to you. The outcome of this then becomes obvious. You are incorporated into other worlds’ infrastructure, whether it be a Collective, an empire or an aggressive association of worlds, all of whom are always looking for new territory and new resources.

The Unseen Ones have told us in response to our first set of discourses that many people feel helpless and hopeless in the face of encountering all of these things. We understand this. We have faced such thresholds ourselves, with very grave consequences because we did not prepare in time. However, as we have said, and must continue to emphasize, humanity does have the power and the skill to stop the Intervention and to prevent future interventions of this kind. You have inherent Knowledge that lives within you. This is what we mean by spirituality. You have enough individual power and enough technology to offset the kind of intervention that is occurring in your world at this time. You could drive the Intervention out if you had the will to do it. But you must become educated about the Greater Community, and you must be very clear and sober about what you are dealing with at this time. That is why our counsel is so important, if you can receive it.

Part of the inducement of the Intervention is to discourage those who are aware of its real nature. In other words, for those individuals who become aware of the Intervention, the focus of the visitors then will be to demoralize and to discourage them, to make them feel weak, helpless and impotent in its face, to make them think that they are being visited by enormous powers with unlimited strength, and that they have absolutely no possibility of resisting the visitors’ persuasion or offsetting the visitors’ presence in the world.

This is but part of the manipulation that is being perpetrated. For those who seem cooperative and receptive, the glorious benefits of collaborating with the visitors will be emphasized. For those who are doubtful about these things or who cannot be persuaded, then discouragement and demoralization will be the primary influence.

Here, then, it is necessary for you to understand that your own sense of weakness and helplessness is not merely a product of your lack of self-trust but is actually part of the manipulation that is being cast in your mental environment. We understand that the governments of your world encourage their populations to feel weak and dependent upon their government’s structure and authority. But we are talking about a greater and more pervasive kind of influence here.

Humanity will succumb either because it is persuaded to do so or because it is discouraged from resisting. These are two forms of manipulation with a common goal. Therefore, you must not lose faith. You must learn about life in the Greater Community.


You have strengths and you have weaknesses. The Collectives have strengths and they have weaknesses. Your position in the universe has advantages and disadvantages. You also have allies who want to see human freedom protected and who want to see humanity emerge into the Greater Community as a free, united and protected world. We support this everywhere, for this is the true spiritual inclination. In the universe in which you live, there are formidable forces of opposition against this. However there are powerful forces that keep freedom alive and encourage it and nurture it wherever that can be accomplished.

Therefore, understand that if you feel weak and helpless and overwhelmed, part of this feeling comes from the Intervention itself. Here you must gain great confidence in the inherent goodness of humanity and recognize the real value of your freedom. You have never been challenged like this before. Your freedom has never been challenged as a race, as a people, as a world like this before. Yet everyone in the world can at least value the possibility of freedom and whatever freedom they may have at this moment. It is all at risk now.

This is where you find your common unity, and this is where you heal your conflicts and your ancient animosities between one another. Here you settle your scores because now they do not matter. What matters is the preservation of human freedom and your pre-eminence in your own world. What matters now is the preservation of your world’s resources for your own future survival and security. What matters now is that you recognize the Intervention and take the necessary steps to thwart it and to stop it. This must happen at every level of your societies — at the level of government, at the level of religion, and at the level of the will of the common people.

There are great spiritual forces in the world we know who support this and who encourage it. Yet their influence and their voices can be overshadowed by the effects of the Intervention and by the ignorance of people themselves. In our worlds, emissaries were sent to advise us of the impending danger that we faced from the infiltration of foreign powers into our worlds. We were being seduced as you are now being seduced to join in mutual benefits of trade and commerce. Those of us who were skeptical and those of us who resisted such a persuasion were alienated from our societies and were dissuaded and discouraged and demoralized to a point where we could not have the governing voice, where we could not represent the will of the people.

If your people simply want little trinkets from the universe, new technological toys to play with, and you would give away your freedom and your autonomy for this, then certainly our words will not be enough. But the education must start somewhere. And it must reach those people who already have a sensitivity to the Greater Community. It must reach those people who value human freedom and do not take it for granted. It must reach those people who have already been affected by the Intervention, either directly or indirectly. It must begin somewhere. You need to know you have allies in the Greater Community, but you also need to know that it will be human strength and human cooperation that will turn the tide in your favor. We cannot intervene beyond giving you our counsel.

You must understand without ambivalence and confusion the real nature and purpose of the Intervention in the world today. At this moment, your true allies are not present in the world. They are not walking the face of your world. They are not dwelling in your world. They are not influencing your governments and people in positions of power. They are not contacting your sensitives and your psychics. They are not trying to persuade those who are religious in their views.

We speak for your true allies. Our counsel is to give you perspective, understanding and sobriety and to help you offset the influences that are being cast upon you and have been cast upon you now for decades. You have the power to resist. You have the power to unite. You have the power to cast off this influence.

The Collectives do not believe you will resist, and so they are less careful than perhaps they should be in influencing you. They think this project will be time-consuming but easy and that the ultimate goal will be achieved without great difficulty. We must then speak to those people who are ready and able to respond. There is no other problem or dilemma in your life as critical as this. Anything that you establish on your own behalf for your nation, for your group, for your culture or your religious tradition will be lost in the face of the Intervention. You do not want to be part of a Collective. You must trust us in this regard and consider our words seriously. There is no freedom there. You will become nothing but servants bonded to your new masters. And though those of you who represent your masters will have certain privileges, you will all be enslaved. And the power then to resist, though it can still be mustered, will have much greater costs and consequences.

To those governing powers observing the Collectives who are intervening in your world, it must appear that humanity welcomes the presence of the Collectives. It must appear from the outside that humanity is in favor of this Intervention. That is why there is such a great effort to secure emissaries for the Intervention and to have individuals in positions of power and leadership advocate for the presence of the visitors and affirm the visitors’ promises of greater wealth, power, freedom and peace. Can you understand what we are telling you here? This is a deception, both within your world and beyond.

Until there is a strong voice resisting the Intervention that is made known and public, it will appear to outside observers that the Intervention is being welcomed by humanity and is being advocated by humanity. Already, the Intervention has many speakers and representatives, but few vocal critics. Even your vocal criticism creates problems for the Intervention. Even for people to speak out and say, “No, this is wrong! We are being visited against our will! We are being persuaded and manipulated against our will! This must not happen! We do not welcome this! And we demand that the visitors leave!” Until these voices are heard, it will appear to governing bodies and to those who compete with these Collectives, that they are here with human consent. Even to arouse a public outcry would have great benefit here for you.

It is not that you have to physically remove the visitors. Instead, you have to demonstrate your displeasure with their presence and with their activities. You have to demonstrate sobriety regarding their inducements and their deceptions. And you have to speak out against their attempt to interbreed with humanity, to create a new leadership here. You have to speak out against the abduction of people against their will. For these things are being carried out in secret. Even outside authorities do not know this is happening.

We must keep emphasizing these things so that you can see and understand clearly. Raise your voice against the Intervention, and the Intervention is put at risk. Resist the Intervention and the Intervention must stop and the Collectives must find other ways to gain your attention and your allegiance.

As we said in our previous discourses, no one should be setting foot on your soil without your expressed consent. Your allies would not come here without this expressed consent even though at an earlier time your allies did attempt to reach certain individuals in the world, in the face of the Intervention. Yet generally speaking, no true ally of humanity would intervene in human affairs.

Do not think you can persuade those workers in the Collectives whom you will most likely meet in your face-to-face encounters. They have not the discernment or the will to understand your perspective. They are only carrying out their duties as they have been bred to do. Though they are biological beings and still have the potential for Spirit, the likelihood of you being able to persuade them is very, very limited. They are functioning mindlessly. They do not have the moral foundation you have. Personal freedom is unknown to them, and they do not value it, having been taught that personal freedom is chaotic, unruly and destructive. They would not accept your pleas and your admonitions. And even those who manage and control them, though having greater authority, will not be able to comprehend your complaints or your persuasions.


This is not how the Intervention will be stopped. It will not be stopped by your creating dissension amongst its ranks. The Intervention will be stopped because you have created a voice against it and your people are united in preventing it from happening in the world. At this moment, alien craft come and go at will. People are taken at will. Biological resources are taken at will. Access to individuals in positions of power are made at will. There is not the collective agreement and resistance necessary to offset any of these intrusions, any of these violations of your fundamental rights. This must change. And it must start with someone. It must start with you and with others like you who have a greater awareness and sensitivity. It must start with those who can respond to a message such as ours and who have the inner trust to know that we are speaking the truth.




2–5: What They Want


As we have said, those who are intervening in your world today want to gain control of this world for obvious reasons and for reasons that are not so obvious. They see this world as a great prize, rich in resources, governed by a race that they believe is unruly and unworthy to be the stewards of such a wondrous place. They also value your world, as we have said, because of its strategic importance and because of the hidden depositories that exist in many parts of the world.But this does not fully answer the question as to what the visitors really want. Here we must open another door into the darker side of the Intervention and, in doing so, reveal more to you the nature of commerce as it exists in this part of the galaxy.

As we have said, the Intervention is primarily a set of commercial forces, not military forces. They view your world for its prospects, for its resources, for its strategic importance and for its hidden treasures. But what you must understand at this point is that they also value you.

As we have emphasized throughout our briefings, they need human assistance to establish themselves in your world. They need the human infrastructure. They need human government and religion. They need your assistance to establish their operations here fully and reliably. And they will provide you a semblance of your former life in order to maintain human order and allegiance to the best of their ability. In order to accomplish and to maintain this, however, they will have to establish a very deep network of deception that we have been describing all along.

Here you must understand that they regard you as a resource as well. They do not consider you to be their equals. They do not value your religions, your cultures or your customs. They see you primarily as one of the resources of the world. As such, they seek to take advantage of you in all the ways that they can that they deem to be profitable and valuable to their interests.

To them, you are a potential asset. As an asset, you are valued only in what you are worth to them, how you may assist them and what you may be worth as an entity and as a resource in and of yourself. You must stop to consider what this really means. It means that they consider you to be a biological resource, part of a network of resources that exists within this world. In this, they view you much the same way that you view domesticated animals that you use as a resource. You use these animals for a variety of reasons, we understand. And this is common in the Greater Community in worlds where such animals can be used as a food resource. We understand that you use your animals in many different ways, to provide many different kinds of benefits and substances and so forth. This is how you appear to those who are visiting your world, to the Intervention. They do not consider you their equal. They consider you their resource.

What you may not understand is that each year thousands of people are taken and not returned to the world. These people are not simply conditioned. They are kept. Some of them perish in captivity. Some of them do not survive the process of their capturing. Some become sick and die. Those that cannot survive and are still seen as useful to the Intervention are used as a biological resource. That means that their blood, their body parts, everything is used according to its value in the Greater Community. In the Greater Community, biological resources such as blood, plasma, DNA, bone marrow, skin and body organs can be used for their chemical substances. From these, medicines are made. From these, new life forms are bred. These substances are valuable commodities in certain parts of the Greater Community.

If those who are captured and not returned survive, they will be used for other purposes. Should the Intervention gain complete control of your world, many people who are considered to be undesirable, or who do not fit into the social patterns established through the Intervention, will be used as biological resources in this way.


Perhaps this is shocking, but you can understand this, for this is how you treat your animals as biological resource — to be used for food, for clothing, for medicines, for fuel. In the Greater Community, biological resources are very valuable because they can be used and altered for a variety of purposes as we have mentioned — for medicinal purposes, for life support purposes and for the breeding and generation of new species.

This is why many of your animals are taken. They are not simply taken to provide blood products for the interbreeding program. They are taken because these blood products themselves are highly valuable and can be traded very successfully.

In technological societies such as the Collectives, biological resources are extremely valuable and difficult to find in the Greater Community. As we have said repeatedly, your world is viewed as a biological storehouse. So while the visitors want the mineral resources of your world, they also want things that are much more elemental to the needs of life. They need water. They need oxygen. They need blood. They need the resistance factors in blood. They need plasma. They need the biological elements that constitute life and that are fundamental to life everywhere.

This means that they need you as a biological resource. It is one thing to consider that your world will be used to serve other powers. But the idea that you will be used to serve other powers is another matter altogether and represents a further violation of your fundamental rights.

This, of course, is entirely hidden from their public agenda. Those that they persuade to become their adherents and their representatives will never be told these things. Part of their Pacification Program is to assure you that they are here for your good and for your redemption and for the preservation of the world. But as we have so often said, it is the preservation of the world for their needs. The plants, the animals, the breathable atmosphere and the water are all resources to be used and are valuable in and of themselves, as well as the mineral wealth that exists in this world. But the missing part in all this is your role as a biological resource. This is how the Intervention views you — as a resource. This, of course, would never be revealed to those who are being pacified or to those who even today may stand as representatives and apologists for the Intervention. But this is so very true.

You may wonder, where have all the people gone who have disappeared and not returned? You may ask this. Did they all run away? Some indeed were the victims of human violence. Some indeed have run away. But we are talking about many people worldwide who have disappeared, without a trace, without a clue. We know this from studying the transmissions of your governments. We know this from what the Unseen Ones have told us. And we know this because this is evident in the Collectives’ intrusions in other worlds. Somehow, mysteriously, individuals begin to disappear at the early stages of these Interventions. And people who recognize that these disappearances are happening will think it is due to the normal but unfortunate circumstances within their own cultures. It will be explained in these terms.


Here you must think of your well-being and the well-being of your family, your children, your friends and your acquaintances, most assuredly. And beyond this, you must consider the well-being of your whole world and the security of human life. As a resource, you will be used, and when your usefulness is over, you will be discarded. This is how resources are used. Some are preserved. Some are used up. Just the way that you use resources in your daily life.

What you think of as the human soul, the spirit of humanity, is not valued by the Intervention. This violation is so complete and so thorough, and it is occurring already in all of its manifestations. Look into this matter and think for yourself. And you shall see for yourself. We are giving you the perspective of looking from the outside in. This gives you an objective view of the circumstances of your world and the forces that are acting upon it.

As we mentioned in our first set of discourses, should the Intervention take full hold and an occupation be established here completely, then the human population will be reduced into an efficient working class. How will this be accomplished without producing outrage and revolution among the human population? It will be accomplished through the disappearance of people. It will be accomplished by the isolation of those who are considered to be uncooperative or dissenting. They will be taken away, to be seen no more. And while there will be the appearance of normalcy in human affairs, behind the scenes everything will be changed and will be managed by a different set of powers.

It is hoped by the Collectives that this can be accomplished for as long as possible and that a revolution will not begin, for that would be very costly to their endeavors. And very costly to humanity as well. The visitors are here to do business. You are part of the business. Your hands. Your eyes. Your reproductive organs. Your blood. Your plasma. Your biochemistry. This is all part of their business. To them, you are like intelligent livestock — useful, interesting and commercially important.


At the outset, they will treat you with deference, those of you who may encounter them face to face, but they will give you no power. They will not give you a choice. They will only try to convince you of the wisdom of their ways and the necessity of their presence in the world. And should you decline or should you resist, they will make life difficult for you, or they will discard you for later use.

Some of those, we understand, who have not returned to the world were those who fought against them and were eliminated as a result. How do we know these things? We know them because we understand the Collectives. We understand their legal commerce, and we understand their illegal commerce. They want to use every part of the world. And they want to use every part of you. Just like you would want to use every part of the cow or the sheep or any other domesticated animal that you breed for your own purposes.

How do we know that they are doing these things in the world? We know because we are monitoring their communications. Otherwise, we could not fully observe their activities and understand the nature of their involvement here. It is remarkably similar to their involvement in other emerging worlds. What we cannot see, the Unseen Ones have revealed to us.

We know from their transmissions, their communications with their bases within the world and their satellites beyond the world, that many of their “specimens,” as they refer to you, have either perished or had to be used for other reasons. However, we know from their earth transmissions that many people are disappearing. So it is not difficult for us to see the connection.

In their attempt to breed a new leadership for humanity, a hybridized person, they need all of these biological resources that we are describing.

What we are speaking of here is the most hidden and secret part of their agenda, the part that they will never reveal to you willingly, the part that you may never see without great assistance. This is the most secret of their activities. They sell biological products on what you would call a “black market” in the universe. But the value of these products and the demand for them is indeed significant.

In most places where commerce has been established, such as in your vicinity, such trade is illegal, for it is considered to be morally and ethically reprehensible. But with so many technological societies existing in the universe and biological resources such as exist in your world being as rare as they are, the demand for these fundamental elements is considerable.

Many technologically advancing nations have outstripped their own world’s biological resources to the extent that they must find them elsewhere, and they must trade and barter for them as one of their primary endeavors. This is not simply food products, minerals and metals and elements such as this. It is also the need for biological products such as we have described, which are abundant in your world and which are abundant within the human family.

So when someone asks, “What do they want?” The appropriate answer is, “They want your world and its resources. And they want you and your resources.” As we have said, this is the most hidden of their agendas. But it is necessary for you to know because this makes the violation complete.

The visitors do not “hate” humanity. They are not cruel and murderous in the sense that you might think. They just view you as a resource the way you view your animals as a resource. To them, though you have intelligence, they consider that you are irredeemably chaotic and unruly, and they do not understand your deeper motivations. They see your technology as being in a rather adolescent phase, and they look at your destructive behaviors with concern, anxiety and repulsion. Being without Knowledge, the spiritual foundation, they do not see that what they are perpetrating upon your world is ethically or morally reprehensible. It is merely an opportunity to fulfill their practical necessities

As we have said, they seek to bring humanity into their Collective, but this is only a very select part of your population. And here you would not be at the upper levels of their hierarchy. For all the other people in the world, what will happen to them if the Intervention is complete, if the occupation can be established completely?

We have been reluctant to tell you certain things because we do not want to lose your attention. We do not want you to turn away in denial, thinking that you cannot face these matters. So we have tried to be extremely careful in the way that we have presented the situation. But in spite of this, there are certain things you must know and that you cannot readily see from your vantage point. We had to learn about these realities ourselves though we had assistance such as we are providing for you. But the reprehensible nature of the Collectives and their lack of morality and ethics is something we have had to face. That is why we avoid the Collectives in our own worlds, where they cannot penetrate.

There are many nations in the universe that have created alliances to protect themselves from Collectives such as these, particularly in well-inhabited areas of the galaxy. This is why many of the Collectives’ activities are governed by trade unions and regional governing powers and authorities. They are held in check by many other forces who do not want to fall under their persuasion or their control. Even many of their trading partners look at them with anxiety. And even if they are forced to engage in commerce with Collectives, they must protect themselves from the Collectives’ influence.

Resources are precious in the universe — mineral resources, water resources, biological resources, food resources. Large technological societies such as the Collectives have an enormous need for resources for their own maintenance. Their commerce is based upon the acquisition of all these things and on the exploration for new sources. This, of course, makes them primarily interested in emerging worlds such as your own, which are emerging within regions where they have influence and power.

Consider our words. Now we will tell you what you must do.




2–6: A Call to Action


It has been our mission to observe the alien Intervention in the world today and to provide to you our commentaries and our perspective. It is a difficult task and a difficult message. We understand the problems that people may have in receiving this communication. They may question our method of communicating. They may question, certainly, our reality and identity and the trustworthiness of our words. They may question the reality that we are presenting. And perhaps the temptation to deny these things will be great for some people.

Yet what will really enable you to hear our words and to know their authenticity will be your ability to respond with the deeper knowing within yourself. Throughout our discourses, we have referred to the reality of Knowledge, the Spiritual Intelligence that lives within you. We have spoken of its central importance in your preparation for the Greater Community. We have spoken of it as the true power that enables you to see beyond all the deceptions and manipulations of the Intervention. we have spoken of it as the inherent power that the Collectives do not use and do not recognize — Knowledge. This Knowledge is not like a military power. It is not something that you can use to gain things by force or to overwhelm or dominate others. It is the greater Spiritual Intelligence that you share with the Creator.

Humanity has a great challenge before it and is facing a great risk in its emergence into the Greater Community. Therefore, it is necessary to find the strength that will enable you to unite your peoples and to take your place in the Greater Community as a free and self-determined race. This power must come from within people and must be reinforced by the greater forces for good that exist both within your world and in the Greater Community.

There will perhaps be people who will reject our words and counsel and reject what we are presenting altogether. They may have their own preferences in the matter. They may have their own fear and sense of inadequacy. Perhaps they have fallen prey already to the persuasions of the Intervention and do not wish to consider that they may be in error. Perhaps they are just too afraid to face this great challenge. Perhaps they want to escape into their personal concerns and preoccupations. But what is really being called for here is the power and the presence of this Spiritual Intelligence we call Knowledge, which is the source of your real conscience. Yet what you may not realize is that this is the very source and bond of all spirituality in the universe. The expressions of spirituality and the rituals of spirituality, the great Teachers and emissaries of spirituality are too numerous to count in the universe. The philosophies and the methodologies are unique to cultures and their histories. But at the center is this mysterious and profound power that enables you to see, to know and to act in harmony with the Creator of all life.

Surely our presence and our words can be rejected and denied. But with Knowledge, this will not be the case. For we are certain that we are presenting the truth to the best of our ability. Your allies abroad have sent us here on a mission in great service to humanity. The integrity of our mission and of our presentation is real and genuine. It is not merely a matter of perspective or perception.

We must rely upon this Spiritual Power within you, the reader and the receiver of our message. For indeed, we are revealing more than our words can convey. We are revealing an entire reality of life in the universe. We are opening the door to the great mysteries that humanity has not yet penetrated, and in some cases has not even considered.

Though we are very different from you and though we practice our spirituality in ways that are unique to us and that you could not really accommodate, what we emphasize is absolutely fundamental to your being, to your nature and to your reality.

Knowledge is not simply a great potential that lives within you. It is the most vital element that can secure your freedom and maintain it, both now and in the future. There is the freedom to live according to your conscience, and then there is the freedom to find Knowledge within yourself. Unless you have the first freedom, it will be much more difficult to find the second. First you must survive and remain free, and then the opportunity is there for you to gain access to the greater Spiritual Intelligence that lives within you. Finding this freedom and this Knowledge gives you insight into the reality and the meaning of life in the universe. This gives you great promise, and we must emphasize that which gives you this great promise — Knowledge, freedom, strength. These are the things that you must now cultivate.


In the future, the differences between you as human beings will become increasingly less significant. Two things will overshadow them. The first will be forces from the Greater Community, which will challenge your essential right to be in the world as a free race. This puts everyone in the same boat. The second will be the reality of Knowledge within you, which will seek to unite you with others in order to give you this Knowledge, this freedom and this strength. Discovering this Knowledge is not merely an option and not merely the goal of exceptional individuals. It represents the essence of your struggle for freedom.

Knowledge will reveal this to you and will confirm our words. Beyond your preferences and beliefs, this is most certainly true. We have confidence here, for this is where we place our faith — in the essential goodness and potential wisdom that reside within the human family. Otherwise, our great attempt to sound an alarm and to bring a Greater Community awareness into the world will fail. It will not take effect here. This failure has grave consequences, for humanity does not yet understand its predicament, nor does it understand what it must rely upon in order to achieve success. The Creator wills that humanity be a free race in the universe, but it is up to you. It depends on what you choose to believe in, what you choose to do and what you choose to emphasize.

The Intervention is very secretive and very clandestine. Only those who have been directly impacted by it or who have been contacted directly are aware of its presence, and they are subject to considerable persuasion and manipulation, as we have described. Therefore, who is in a position to really know on their own accord? We provide a perspective that you could not have otherwise. We provide insight into important realities about life in the Greater Community that you do not have access to. And we bear witness to those of you who have begun to feel these things already within yourselves. Our message serves as a confirmation of these deeper insights. But the question remains, can you know what you know, can you follow what you know and can you respond from this deeper part of yourself and share this with other people?

Soon we will have to leave the vicinity of your world, for as the first set of discourses was revealed, the Intervention became aware of our presence here and began a thorough and determined search for us. We must escape before this happens, and even here our escape carries with it great dangers for us. Our departure will not go unnoticed. And there will be an attempt to follow us and to find us wherever we go. We cannot return to our home worlds for that would lead to their discovery. We must seek hiding at a greater distance. From that position, we will not be able to witness the ongoing activities of the Intervention.

Therefore, in these two sets of Briefings, we must provide you everything that you will need to proceed on your own. Yet our assistance as observers is soon to come to an end. Even as we present these words, we are prepared to leave. Therefore, we communicate in great haste with a sense of urgency. Yet we must wonder, who can really hear us and take to heart what we are saying? And who will act upon these words with their own inner conviction? We are not here to lead you or to be leaders for humanity. Humanity must have its own leaders. Yet who will assume this mantle of responsibility? Who will have the inner conviction? Who is strong enough with Knowledge to see, to know and to feel the reality of what we are presenting to the point where they can take action and begin to speak out against the Intervention?

We cannot answer these questions. Only you can answer them. We can provide you glimpses into life in the universe and an essential understanding of the nature and activities of the Intervention and of those who are intervening here. Yet we cannot answer every question and indeed it is not answers that you need as much as the inner conviction to see, to know and to act. Our greatest desire is that we may stimulate this within enough people that a movement will arise to offset the Intervention and to demonstrate humanity’s displeasure with its uninvited guests. This would be a beneficial beginning. But it is only the beginning, for there must be an awareness of the reality of the Greater Community. And there must be a sober and profound understanding of what humanity must do in order to secure its freedom and its well-being in this larger and far more complex arena of intelligent life.

It has been our desire not to cast a dark or fearful specter of life in the universe, for indeed there are many marvelous and wondrous creations, and there are many societies that have achieved very high states of awareness. Yet these still remain in the minority of the manifestations of intelligent life throughout this galaxy to the extent that we are aware of, and we have met many others who have seen things that we have never seen.

In order for humanity to enter into this new panorama of life, you must have an orientation as to what exists there and what to expect and how you must function and conduct yourselves. No one in the world is prepared to give you this counsel, for how could anyone know? It takes your allies, the Allies of Humanity, to provide this perspective and this orientation. Otherwise, you would feel alone and so vulnerable that you could lose heart and capitulate to the persuasion of those who seek to gain control of you and your world.

We would like now to say something about the individual who is receiving this communication. Marshall Vian Summers is not simply a man who was unwittingly chosen for a great task. He has been sent into the world for this purpose. He is a man who has been sent with a Divine mission, to help prepare humanity for its encounters with the Greater Community and to represent The Greater Community Teaching in the world, a teaching in The Greater Community Way of Knowledge.

Many years ago, there was an attempt on our part to reach him directly. He was called to a location in a mountainous area and was prepared for his contact with us. Several members of our party made the dangerous journey into this world, but unfortunately their mission was never completed. Once they were discovered by the Intervention, they had to destroy themselves and their craft, leaving no evidence behind of our presence in the world. This marked a great failure. And the loss of four very precious individuals. There are only five of us left now. And we again are facing great danger.

The preparation for our contact with this individual has been long and with many delays. First, he had to become the receiver for The Greater Community Teaching. He had to become its first student. Then he had to take a position from which he could represent this new threshold of understanding for humanity. Certain people were called to assist him, not all of whom were able to do so. Many of these delays, which were largely beyond his control, have delayed our presentation. This is why we are late in giving you our discourses and our briefings.

It has been a very great challenge for this individual to receive and to accept such a responsibility. He did not ask for it. Yet he is born with it. And with all the delays, the chance for success has become more of a concern to us. That is why at this time we must speak with great emphasis. And we must repeat our essential message so that we can be sure that it is being heard and understood.

Every month and every year now is precious. Every month and every year that humanity remains unprepared for the Greater Community, the situation becomes more difficult and more grave. We have had to move twice in our position here in your Solar System. We cannot tell you more, for we do not wish to give evidence of our presence to your adversaries.

In our own histories, for those of us who remain, it was equally difficult to present a very similar message to our own cultures. We were met with disbelief, ridicule, shock. The idea that our worlds could be intervened by forces who were not friendly to us was something that our races were totally unprepared for. We believed, as do you, living in a state of isolation, that we were privileged and had the graces of the Divine powers. We could only assume that the initial visitations, which were carried out as secretly as they are in your world, were for a greater benefit. That was our assumption. It was only when a group such as ourselves met and counseled certain individuals in our respective worlds in order to deliver a warning and an awareness that a real preparation could begin.

Yet we must remain emphatic in our assurance that there is still time for humanity to offset and stop the Intervention. However, for this to happen, this individual must be recognized and assisted. You must speak out yourself on behalf of this message that we are giving, and you must assist him in speaking on behalf of it. He has very little support in the world. There are great obstacles. The Intervention is aware of him and even at this moment is seeking to thwart him.

This message that we are conveying to you has been entrusted to this individual to deliver to you in a pure form, as pure a form as can be achieved. We have confidence that he has been able to do this. He has also been given The Greater Community Teaching, which is the only preparation in the world to prepare people in a Greater Community Way of Knowledge.

We are very honored to be able to present this information. And we regret the many delays that have prevented us from giving it at an earlier time. We are working against powerful forces, and we must await the readiness of those who can receive us and who can plant the seeds that we are presenting here in these Briefings.

We have imparted that which we feel is essential for your well-being and your survival. We have left out many other things that you would perhaps find very fascinating, but which are not central to your need. We have been very concerned not to cloud the essential issue with non-essential details. And indeed too many details simply make our communication seem more inexplicable.

We speak on behalf of your allies, who are substantial and represent many races. All nine of us have come from different worlds, and yet we share the same mission because we are strong with Knowledge. We want for humanity what we want for ourselves, which is self-sufficiency, creativity, freedom from intrusion and life without conflict and war. The right to be in life in order to achieve a higher purpose and respond to a higher calling that the Creator has provided to all as a potential — this is what we seek to affirm for ourselves and for the human family. Yet as is true in your world, there are powerful forces and persuasions that stand in the way of this discovery and achievement. And so we work behind the scenes to advocate for freedom and Knowledge in all sentient beings, even in the Collectives, even in empires that are aggressive and destructive, even in individuals who are unscrupulous and devious.

We are aware of many races in the universe who demonstrate Knowledge and the lack of Knowledge. You will have the opportunity to learn about these things in the future if you can secure your freedom now. Humanity is but at the beginning of its greater accomplishments. Yet its current recklessness, its tribal conflicts and its environmental degradation all threaten the possibility that you will have the chance to achieve a greater state of life for your people.

The Intervention seems now as a rude intrusion into an already difficult situation. But as so often is the case, the great demonstrations of nature prove to be redemptive if they can be recognized and utilized accordingly and appropriately. That which seems to overshadow humanity is the one thing that can unite humanity and bring an end to tribal conflict. Every person in the world must learn about the Greater Community and the truth about the Intervention in the world. They must learn about the Intervention before it fulfills its occupation. Any advancement in this regard is a blessing. Any failure in this regard hurts all life in your world.

Though one individual has been given the burden and the privilege of bringing our message into the world and to receive The Greater Community Teaching, it will be up to many, many people in many cultures to share this understanding and this preparation and to translate it into many different languages in your world. The need for freedom and the desire for freedom are universal. Essentially our message and The Way of Knowledge are about freedom — the freedom to live freely in your own world without bondage to another race and without intrusion or intervention from another race, and the freedom to find Knowledge and to fulfill yourself in your great journey here in physical life. It is all about freedom.

When the religious leaders of the world and the political leaders of the world recognize that they have a fundamental common interest and common mission to defend the human family, then they can bring all of their assets to bear in this regard. This will largely overshadow their disagreements and their hostilities towards one another.

The question then for you is, are you free to know these things that we are speaking of? Are you free to respond? Are you free to speak out against the Intervention? The teaching in freedom starts right now. This is the first step.

This is not a time for ambivalence or complacency. This is not a time to simply project one’s grievances and distrust upon the world. To the extent that humanity is divided and unaware of life beyond its borders, it is vulnerable and without real security. Your opposition to one another is misplaced. The truth is, you have no defense against the outside.

Should you successfully defend your right to be the pre-eminent race in this world and to live with freedom and to cultivate freedom within the human family and within human societies, then you will have the opportunity to meet and to know your allies. That will be a great revelation and homecoming for you. In the meantime, there is great work to be done. And everyone has the possibility to do this great work.




2–7: FIRST COMMENTARY: The Problem of Human Denial


Many people, when reading The Allies of Humanity Briefings, will become afraid. They will read it as if they think it is real and genuine, which it is, and they will become frightened and want to withdraw. They will want to deny it in some way.

In a way, The Allies of Humanity material reveals your weaknesses. It calls upon your strength. It calls upon your inherent wisdom. It calls upon Knowledge, the Spiritual Mind within you, but it also reveals your weaknesses. It reveals your vulnerability. It reveals your lack of control over your own consciousness. It reveals your undefended borders to space. It reveals your assumptions, your preoccupations, and overall your ignorance of life in the universe.

Here it is important to ask yourself if humanity will ever encounter intelligent life from beyond its world. And if it does, when that happens, how will humanity respond? How will humanity know if its new visitors are friendly or not? How will humanity be able to discern the visitors’ motives and their consciousness? How will humanity be able to discern their organization, their methods and so forth?

If you consider these questions seriously, you will realize that you have very few answers. And without answers, perhaps you will become afraid. You will feel your own vulnerability, and you will feel how unprepared people really are for an encounter such as this.

Because most people still think that they are alone in the universe, that they have always been alone and will always be alone, well, this important set of questions really does not get considered by very many people. And even those who do consider it often think very romantically about life in the universe and what it will bring humanity and how much humanity will gain from this encounter. They think how interested the visitors will be in humanity’s art and culture, history and temperament.

So even amongst the very few people who really consider these questions and think they are important, there is often a great deal of romantic speculation. People are afraid to be realistic regarding life in the universe because it reveals their weaknesses. When we speak of weaknesses, we are not talking about your lack of technology. Really, what we are talking about is your lack of awareness, your lack of focus in life, your lack of social cohesion in your nations and cultures. Humanity is divided and contentious within itself. This makes you vulnerable to outside forces. But really your vulnerability goes even beyond this because it has to do with your state of mind. It has to do with your view of yourself and your world. It has to do with your assumptions, your illusions and your preoccupations.

It is as if a great storm were building and had been building for some time, but people paid no attention. And then when the storm hits, well, it hits with such fury. It hits with such an impact. People are completely taken by surprise and are outraged and terrified. And yet the signs were there.

Even human science is beginning now to acknowledge the preponderance of life in the universe as a theoretical probability. Yet who is concerned with what your first great encounters might mean?

As The Allies Briefings are presented, there will be all kinds of denial, criticism and repudiation. Why? Why so much rejection over an encounter that everyone really considers to be very possible? Yet when it is actually accounted for, you will see a great deal of denial. “Outrageous! Ridiculous! Cannot happen!” You will hear scientists say, “Well, it is not possible for another race to get here given the limitations of travel and speed and so forth.” How presumptuous! Do human beings dare to presume what other nations and cultures have been able to develop over a long period of time? Is the universe limited by human understanding? Is it not possible that other races could have far surpassed human accomplishment in technology?

You may say, “Well, of course!” But when faced with the prospect of a real encounter, people sing a very different tune. Their idealism leaves them. Their romanticism is thrown into doubt. Their glorious anticipation is overshadowed with concern and anxiety.

So when The Allies of Humanity message is presented, people begin to feel the real core of their fear, their lack of preparation, the weakness of their position. The Allies present a very realistic view of life in the universe. They are not here to answer every question that you may have, but instead to give you an awareness of what is really occurring in the world today and also to dispel much of the fanciful speculation that surrounds the prospect of humanity encountering other forms of intelligent life. Even fanciful expectation, hopeful expectation, really has fear at its core because you are uncertain, because you do not know, because you are unprepared, because you realize in a moment of honest recognition how vulnerable you really are, living on the surface of your world, exposed to the universe and undefended.

Think for a moment if you were another race visiting your world and you wanted to just simply observe human behavior. Just observe it, without interfering. Well, you could look down on everything. It is all there. Human activity, human involvements, human conflict, human relationships, human technology, human communication — it is all available to the discreet observer.

Therefore, it is very important to understand why people are afraid. The fear of the reality of contact is deep-seated. Many people have this very glorified view that they are at the pinnacle of God’s creation, that their religions are built upon the pre-eminence of human spirituality and human identity. What will happen when they find out that humanity is one little race evolving within a Greater Community of intelligent life? And that this race is actually very weak, divided and insignificant in the vastness of the Creation!

People’s religious views cannot tolerate this kind of realization. Many of these views are already being eroded by the discoveries of science that show that the universe does not revolve around this world, that this world is just a little planet revolving around an insignificant star in a vast galaxy amongst many. Where is human pre-eminence then? Who are you in the universe? Are you really important to anyone or anything?

We are asking these questions to bring you into the core of your anxiety because you must confront this within yourself. The inability or unwillingness to do this is really the source of all human ignorance and presumption regarding humanity’s place in the universe and regarding the reality of the extraterrestrial Intervention that is occurring in the world today.

People say, “Well, there is no Intervention happening here. How ridiculous! It is all the fancy of certain people and their need for attention or their boredom or something.” What are you really hearing here but an excuse? This is the way that one pacifies oneself from experiencing real anxiety.

If you could consider this rationally and objectively, you would say, “Well, of course we would be visited at some point! I mean, if there is intelligent life in the universe, someone out there must know that we exist here.” And if you are not limited by the limitations of humanity’s science, that opens the door to many more possibilities.

If you can ask these questions, you might think to yourself, “Yes, of course humanity will be encountered. Yes, our resources will be scrutinized. Yes, our world will be evaluated. Yes, there are other powers in the universe that would perhaps want our world to be part of their organization. And yes, they would want to take advantage of this beautiful place in some practical way.”

You see, these observations are so obvious. These speculations, if you could call them that, are so reasonable, but people will not consider them. They will not face them because of their anxiety, because of their fear. In fact, the reality of life in the universe, the encounter with life in the universe and the Intervention itself together represent the most denied reality in the world today. People will think, “It is not important. I have my job. I have my family. I have, you know, my own daily problems. I mean, why should it matter to me?” What are you talking about? If there is an Intervention going on in the world, do you think that it is not relevant to you and to your life and to what will happen to you?

Do you see here? This is “isolationist thinking.” The Allies Briefings bring home the reality that humanity’s isolation is over! But the isolationist thinking continues, unabated. Unless you have a direct encounter with forces from the Greater Community where your life is disturbed or upset in some way, well, you will just continue on thinking the way you have always thought, living upon the assumptions that you have always lived upon, oblivious to the greater realities that are shaping your life and destiny. And how can God reach you to tell you to become alert and aware, to make you responsive to these greater realities that are changing your life and destiny?

People love the idea of a God out there that will throw them a life preserver when they are drowning, but the idea that God will interfere in their life and show them something they really don’t want to see, well, that is really a test of faith, isn’t it? That is exactly what is happening today. That is why the teaching in Greater Community Spirituality is in the world because this is God’s message to alert humanity to this greater reality and to prepare humanity. The awareness is not enough. If the awareness engenders primary anxiety and fear, people will not know what to do. They will say, “Oh, my God! What do we do?” And they don’t know what to do because they have never had to respond to this directly before. That is why God’s message brings with it the preparation so people can begin to think like they live in a Greater Community. Then they can begin to become aware that there are Greater Community realities out there that are going to have a direct impact on them, their lives and their world.

The preparation must give you this greater awareness and consciousness, this sensitivity. Otherwise, you are like an ant colony in a field that is about to be plowed under. And the poor ant colony has not a clue of what is about to happen. Up until the moment of their destruction, well, life will be as it has always been.

But you are not ants, and you have a consciousness. You can consider the future, and you can think about things that are beyond your visible range. And you can consider yourself living within a larger arena of life, both within the world and beyond the world within a Greater Community. As you develop this Greater Community awareness, you begin to see that your world is a very special place, with wonderful attributes. And you may think, “Well, of course others would be interested in our planet. And interested in us, not because we are magnificent but because we are the stewards of this place. We control this world.” And you would begin to think very, very objectively about your situation here.

However, even people who claim to be objective and scientific in their perspective are really still governed by this fundamental fear and anxiety and are still living under the general denial of the fact that the world is being visited and that the Intervention is occurring. They are in such a state of denial that they will not even consider it. They won’t come near it. The information, the evidence, is all over the place, but they won’t even come near it. They will just say, “Oh, no, no. That’s all foolishness. It’s just insecure people trying to get attention.”

They are in denial. They think they are being reasonable, but really they are being so unreasonable. They are supporting and fortifying their own ignorance and the ignorance of others. And even if they cannot accept that the Intervention is occurring, well, the prospect of life in the universe is still a very wondrous, romantic journey to them. It is like something that you dream about in the most glorious ways. “Oh, we will meet these advanced races who will give us so much technology and enlighten us on how to live in peace and so forth.” This is all foolishness! They have not a clue what is happening out there in the universe.

If these reasonable people are given a Greater Community perspective, which the teaching in Greater Community Spirituality provides, oh, my God! It touches that core fear and anxiety. And they feel in that moment how utterly vulnerable they are, how undefended they are, how unprepared they are. And you look at people, and they don’t have a clue. And they don’t want to have a clue. And you look at your world, and you say, “Oh, my God! We could be overtaken without our even knowing it!”

If you did not have the preparation in Greater Community Spirituality, if you did not have anywhere to go with this awareness, it could be overwhelming because you would think that you had no recourse. It is as if humanity, like an unsuspecting native tribe, were just waiting to be taken over by someone else.

Then, of course, there is the problem with the assumption that technology equals salvation. This is becoming a modern religion in many cultures in the world. Developed nations increasingly believe that technology really is their salvation now. There is a problem? Well, technology will solve it. There is something we can’t understand? Well, technology will overcome it. There is a situation that could arise for which we are unprepared? Well, technology will meet the challenge. “We will meet the challenge with our technology in the eleventh hour.” There is a sort of unquestioned belief that technology is going to save you, regardless of what might happen — technology mixed with human ingenuity, that is. And no matter how overwhelming a situation might be, well, ingenuity plus technology will win the day in the final moments.

Can you see that this is all part of the denial? Wishful thinking is what it is. Regarding the Greater Community, it really is wishful thinking. Do you think humanity is going to generate a technological answer to the presence of Greater Community forces who may want your planet for themselves? We can assure you that it will not be at the level of technology that you will be able to counteract this presence and these influences. Facing a race that is perhaps a thousand years ahead of you technologically, do you think you are going to make a difference in the next few years?

Consider this: The answer will not happen at the level of technology. It will happen at the level of the mind and consciousness. Those who are intervening in the world today are very concerned about preserving the world’s resources and about preserving the human presence here as a workforce. They cannot use technology to accomplish this alone. Yes, their technology is useful in neutralizing someone they may want to take for themselves for investigation. However, if they forcefully exert their technology on your world, they will destroy the world’s resources and destroy the human presence here, and they cannot do that. Therefore, they must use the very means that you are able to counteract.

Yet here we run into fear again because people realize that without their technology, without the hope and the belief that technology is going to win the day and without human intellect being able to solve the problem, they are back in this very vulnerable place once again. But we are not talking about the intellect here. It is not at the level of the intellect that humanity is going to be able to counteract this presence and to strengthen itself in the Greater Community. The intellect plays a very important role as far as technology goes and in certain kinds of problem solving. But in this situation, it will take a deeper awareness.

After all, some of your most intellectually brilliant people are in total denial of the Intervention and think life in the universe is some distant possibility. And you ask yourself, “Well, if they are so brilliant and so well informed, why can’t they feel this presence in the world today? Why can’t they even face this as a possibility and study the evidence rather than dismissing it out of hand? If people are so smart, how can they be so stupid?” Ignorance is one thing. Ignorance can be compensated by gaining information and perspective. But this is not merely ignorance. This is arrogance. It is the assumption that you know what life is in the universe. Oh, my God! Humanity knows what life is in the universe? Oh, my God! Humanity is so far from knowing what life is in the universe, it is pathetic!

Given the unfounded belief in technology as the source of human salvation, many people think, well, more technology is more salvation. And they think that technologically advanced races have evolved beyond being self-seeking and contentious and devious. They think that technologically advanced races do not have conflict and that these races have outgrown the chronic problems that humanity still faces. What a ridiculous assumption! You have technology today that your forefathers a hundred years ago could not even imagine. And yet have you overcome these problems yourselves?

Therefore, do not look to the experts to give you the answer. You must find the answer yourself because the experts may not know and may not want to know. Remember, they are human beings just like you and they have their own thresholds of fear and anxiety that they may not be willing to face.

In a way, the Intervention is the most challenging thing that could happen to humanity. Part of humanity’s liability or weakness here is its presumption that it really understands life, that it really knows what is happening in the universe, that it understands who can travel, who cannot travel and how long it takes to get to planets. It assumes that human understanding sets the standard for all understanding in the universe. This is human arrogance, which supports and fortifies human ignorance.

It is presented in the Teaching in Greater Community Spirituality, and it is presented very boldly in the message from The Allies of Humanity, that life in the universe is challenging, difficult and competitive. And if you approach life in the universe romantically or if you deny it altogether, you do this at great risk.

What really needs to happen here is a whole new shift in human awareness and human learning. It is as if you have reached this great threshold and there must be a completely new paradigm of understanding. It is not simply that you are building on past understanding, adding another feature or another dimension to human awareness. It is really that you have to make kind of a leap here. This is because human understanding is still so grounded in an anthropocentric view of the universe, with humanity at the center of everything and the unquestioned belief that life in the universe functions according to human values and ideals.

For many people, there is still this idea that God is primarily concerned with humanity as the centerpiece of Creation and that everything else is just sort of wallpaper to this great human drama. Look at your religions. Are they really equipped to deal with the realities of the Greater Community? Let me give you this analogy: There are native tribes that have been overtaken and cultures that have been assimilated and destroyed countless places in your world in the last 500 years. It is still occurring today. They have their religions, which can be very expansive. But their religions usually do not include the reality of human life beyond their borders, which puts them in a very vulnerable position because they really don’t know how to respond in the face of an Intervention.

Compared to the Greater Community, humanity’s outpost in this world is like a little village in the jungle. And when this village is confronted with forces coming to seek advantages, what can it do? Well, interestingly enough, it can actually do a great deal. The first thing is to become aware of the Intervention and to face your own fear and anxiety. Here it is necessary to see how ill prepared you are, how vulnerable you are and how easily even you could be persuaded to think and to believe that the visitors are here for your benefit. This is the first threshold, a threshold which unfortunately many people will not cross. They will withdraw or go into denial or cast a very preferred perspective over the whole matter. The first threshold is to recognize your situation. Even if the Intervention were not occurring at this time, you know it would occur at some time.

You see, it’s interesting. People have their grand notions of intelligent life in the universe and advanced technology and other races of altruistic beings out there floating around. Yet the thing that people are most afraid of is that they will encounter others like themselves, but more powerful. What is the thing that people are really afraid of regarding the prospect of encountering intelligent life from beyond the world? They are afraid they will meet themselves. In a different form, perhaps. Perhaps the visitors will look different and use a different language and a different means of communication. But the thing that people are really afraid of, the thing that no one can even talk about, particularly in enlightened circles, is the reality that they are going to meet themselves.

This is not to suggest that your visitors are human beings or that intelligent life functions according to human ideals and beliefs. What we are really telling you here, and what you must come to terms with, is that you are going to meet beings who are driven by the same needs that you are driven by.

The Greater Community of life in which you live is a very competitive environment. You can see this competition in your own world. You can see it in the natural world. You can see it at the level of plants and animals. Yet the Greater Community is a competitive environment on a scale you cannot even comprehend. This means that everyone who is in that environment, particularly those who are active participants in trade and commerce, must find resources and gain alliances with other nations and often try to persuade those nations to enter into alliances with them.

The need for resources does not end because of technology. Technology does not end the fundamental needs of life. It hasn’t for you and it hasn’t for anyone in the universe. Yes, it frees you from certain basic activities, but it creates more complexity. You may not need to go out and hunt and fish for your food, or farm, but you must go to work. You must maintain a much more complicated life in order to afford the food that you need to eat. Technology has freed you from hunting and gathering and has freed you from basic agriculture, but it has not freed you from the need for resources. Indeed, it has made your life more complicated and more exciting, but in other ways, more difficult and more stressful.

It is the same with life in the universe. Everyone has to eat. Everyone has to maintain what they have created. Everyone must deal with other forms of intelligent life that may be vying or competing for basic resources. Do you think an advanced nation in the universe does not have a great need for resources?

The larger nations or organizations may become, the more restrictive they will be regarding personal freedom for their constituents, and the greater the need will be for order and conformity. That is why in the universe the really free nations are small and isolated. Their technology has given them advantages, but they must protect it and keep it hidden.

It would be like you getting a million dollars and going out into the marketplace with your million dollars. Well, what a rude shock. Now everyone is your friend. Now everyone wants to invite you to invest in their endeavor, in their project, or they need your financial help because they are in difficulty. If humanity were ever able to travel beyond its borders and carry its great incentive and enterprise into the universe, it would be like the little housewife having a million dollars and going out into the marketplace. You would not last very long.

You see, this reality of life, which is so denied, is something that must be faced. Who will you meet in the universe? You will meet others like you. Not exactly like you. Not looking like you or talking like you or dressing like you. But they are like you in their needs. And those who are resource explorers in the universe are not the spiritually enlightened.

Therefore, it is necessary to counteract many of the prevailing assumptions and beliefs, fantasies and myths, because otherwise you cannot face the situation. And if you cannot face the situation, it will overtake you. People pray to God for guidance, for strength, for courage and for peace, and God sends Greater Community Spirituality as a preparation. And people say, “What is this? I did not ask for this! What will I do with this? It isn’t relevant!” You don’t know what’s relevant. What you think is relevant may be important to you personally, but it’s not going to protect your rights and your freedoms in the future.

Humanity’s encounter with intelligent life in the universe is not the product of human journeys into space or human science or human philosophy or human religion. It is the result of the Intervention. It is the result of other races coming here in order to preserve the world for themselves, believing that humanity will destroy the world in its conflicts, that humanity will ruin the world’s valuable resources.

Think about this. This is how people would react. If, let us say, developed nations in the world found some little tribe in the recesses of the jungles who were sitting on tons of gold or other kinds of minerals, or had vast forests full of valuable woods, do you think that the advanced nations would not intervene, particularly if they felt these resources were going to waste? Or how about if the natives were cutting down all the trees because they liked the sunlight or they wanted to grow their own food? Well, the nations of the world would be in there doing everything they could to get the resources, either legally or illegally. That is what human nations would do. Do you think they would sit by and let the natives just despoil or neglect what they have? Of course not. Well, if the land is of no value to the powerful nations, sure, give them their reservation. But if they are sitting on $100 million in gold, that would not be a reservation.

Your world is viewed like that by your visitors and by others in the universe who see this precious little world and this race of relatively destructive beings destroying its natural resources and violating its natural laws. Do you think this would not produce an Intervention? Some people think, “Well, of course, they would come and ask permission to be here and our nations, our governments would work out a deal.” Oh, my God! Are you kidding? What would happen instead is that those intervening races would establish a plan of intervention and integration because they want to preserve the human workforce. They cannot live in your world. They will have you do all the work. Get the natives to mine the gold. Just like what has happened in your world. Do you think the natives’ permission is needed? Well, maybe they will find a way to induce you to give your permission, but they are going to get what they want. In your situation in the world today, your visitors are going to get what they want unless you stop them. And the way you are going to stop them is not merely by using technology. It is by intelligence and by cunning. And by cooperation in the human family.

The first step in counteracting the Intervention is awareness, but the awareness really is a big threshold because of people’s fear, anxiety and failed idealism. Can you face your own fear? Can you face your own vulnerability? Can you face the fact that perhaps you have been really wrong in your assessment of the situation, if you have given it any thought at all? People may say, “Well, ok, we get the awareness. Now what’s the next thing?” Ha! They don’t see that the awareness is really big!

The next step is you have to create a Greater Community perspective in the way you look at yourself and in the way that you look at your world. Do you think humanity would be destroying the resources of the world if it could recognize that preserving and sustaining these resources is the very thing that will preserve human freedom in the future? If humanity loses its ability to sustain itself and becomes dependent upon foreign powers for not just advanced technology but for even basic resources, you will lose your freedom.

Perhaps you may say, “Oh, I don’t believe it. We wouldn’t lose our freedom.” But if you think about it objectively, you will see that you will lose your freedom. Either overtly or subtly, you would become reliant upon other races in the universe, and they would determine the terms of engagement. They would control your world. Yet because they do not want to create a human revolution, they will attempt to control your world in such a way that it would be acceptable to people to be controlled. That is why the Intervention that is occurring today is so devious and is being carried out so carefully over time. If they came here in force, everyone would just react and there would be huge warfare and the world’s resources would be severely damaged. There would be no human workforce here that would be either willing or able to help the intervening races, and the whole project would be spoiled.

You must gain a Greater Community perspective. You are a human being living in this world. This world is unprotected. It is valuable. It is sought by others. Intervention by other races will increase over time. How will you defend your borders? How will you be able to determine who is here and why they are here and what they are doing? This cannot be the privilege of secret groups and secret governments.

Humanity has to grow up and outgrow its childish self-preoccupations. It has to outgrow its adolescent fantasies about itself and about life and become realistic. Otherwise, the Intervention will continue, and your world will gradually become governed by foreign powers. And where will you go then with your complaints, your protest and your outrage? It is for this reason that gaining the awareness and a Greater Community perspective is critical because without these, you cannot even take the next step.

The third step is learning about the mental environment. The mental environment is the arena of influence. People know very little about it, but it is very important in Greater Community interactions, particularly between races or organizations that compete with each other. They have to spend a great deal of time trying to discern what the other is going to do and trying to influence the other in subtle ways. This does not happen through technology as much as it happens through consciousness, through awareness, through the projection of thought and through cunning activities. Competitors generally share the same technology, so technology is not the advantage. The advantage is cunning and persuasion. You cannot see this yet because you are still thinking like you live in isolation and that the universe is governed by human principles. You do not want to think about this because you realize that you do not have these skills. And that makes you feel afraid and vulnerable. So the third step in preparation is developing skill in the mental environment. You can actually learn how to do this, but you must have the awareness and you must have a Greater Community perspective to start.

The fourth thing which really must be developed all along is Knowledge. What is Knowledge? When we speak of Knowledge, we are not talking about perspective or bodies of information or data. We are talking about the ability to know — beyond deception, beyond appearances, beyond personal preference, beyond fear and beyond denial. The ability to know. The Intervention has been going on actively for almost 50 years. And people who claim to be studying the UFO phenomenon, well, do they know anything yet, or are they still gathering data? “Well, we don’t want to come to any premature conclusions. You know, this is so complicated and we may never understand it!” What are you talking about? Is this denial? Is this the unwillingness to come to a conclusion? Or is it that people simply just don’t know? Can’t they see and feel what this really is? After 50 years, can’t they see and feel what this really is? They need more evidence? Oh, my God! How much more evidence? Another 50 years of evidence? A hundred years of evidence? 50 more years of evidence, and it will be all over then. And the conclusion you will come to will be so obvious.

It is like the person in a 30-year marriage who never should have gotten married anyway, and it takes them 30 years to figure out that really they made a mistake somewhere back there, and they really should have followed their deeper feelings and not walked down the aisle with this other person. But they have been trying to make it all right for the last 30 years.

Without Knowledge, you will only know what others want you to know. You will only think what others want you to think — whether it be your parents, your culture, your social group, your government, or the Greater Community. You will basically be like cattle and you will be led around, from pasture to pasture. Without Knowledge, the mental environment overtakes you and overwhelms you. Knowledge is the deeper Spiritual Mind within you. It is the only part of you that is unaffected by the mental environment. It is the only part of you that is free from deception and manipulation.

Do you want freedom for yourself? Then you must learn the way of Knowledge. Otherwise, what is freedom? Having more money? Working less, having more money? Is that freedom? Look at the wealthy who have no freedom. Oh, they have lots of money, and they can go anywhere they want. They do not even have to work, some of them. Are they free? Or are they slaves to their money and their situation and their privileges and their appetites and their fears?

The message in The Allies of Humanity Briefings is about freedom. And to have freedom, you must become aware of the Intervention. You must gain a Greater Community perspective. You must learn about the mental environment and its impact upon you. And you must develop your experience of Knowledge. Not a lot of technology here though technology may play a small role in all of this.

When we speak about learning the way of Knowledge, we are not talking about just developing intuition. That is not adequate. You must actually connect with the Knowing Mind within yourself, and this is not an easy task. There will be many who will be unwilling or unable to do this. But not everyone has to do this in order for humanity to turn the tide, to develop a Greater Community awareness and to begin to build boundaries around your world.

Force cannot be used to take over a planet like yours. Therefore, the Intervention must be subtle. It must be deceptive. It must be invasive. It cannot use brute force. This is good for you because you could not withstand brute force. And brute force would destroy the outcome for the visitors, if you can call them visitors. There are many reasons why they will not use it.

The Creator has responded to this great need of humanity, a need that is barely even recognized as a need, by presenting the teaching in Greater Community Spirituality. This teaching encompasses the reality of life in the Greater Community. Never has such a teaching been given in the world before because it was not needed before. Yes, there are many spiritual teachings that emphasize the way of Knowledge to a certain degree. But a Greater Community way of Knowledge has never been given in the world before. You need it now, however. It will not replace the world’s religions but instead give them a greater scope, a greater perspective, and a greater context in which to continue to grow, to exist and to evolve.

Yet it is curious that the world’s religious leaders will perhaps be the most resistant to learning a Greater Community Spirituality. To preserve their traditions, their authority and their power, they will perhaps deny the very thing that will give their tradition a future in the Greater Community. For without human freedom, there is no future. Without human self-determination, there is no future. And without an understanding of the Greater Community, there is no future for anyone here, not a future that you could embrace anyway.

You must see the relevance of this to yourself. All that you want out of life, all that you want to be, do and have, the Intervention could take it all away from you. Are you going to mindlessly pursue your personal goals and to hell with everything else, saying it doesn’t matter?

Even if the Intervention were not happening, the degradation of your natural resources and the growing population of the world would change what is available to you anyway. Some people say, “Well, I’m just going to go get what I want, and I’m not going to worry about anything else.” When people think like that, they are like locusts. Thrown upon the land, they are going to consume everything in sight. And they will leave a wasteland and move on until there is nowhere to move on to, and then they will all die out. Is this the promise for human advancement? To be like parasites that destroy the host and when the host dies, they all die too?

Now, most people would say, “Of course not! Absolutely not!” But if their behavior is self-seeking, then this is an appropriate analogy. Interestingly enough, those who are intervening in your world view humanity as a sort of destructive force in the world that is going to destroy this fabulous place. Their attitude is, “We’re going to get in there and stop them. And if they can’t use their world properly and preserve it, well, we’ll save it for ourselves. They can work for us.” This is exactly how they think. This is their perspective. This is how you would think if you were in their place. Even with all of humanity’s great idealism, you would think like this too. “We are not going to let them destroy this place! If they can’t benefit from it, we will!” This is exactly how a human government would respond. Perhaps this is how you personally would respond.

Those intervening are not evil. They simply see the situation from a certain perspective. They are not guided by Knowledge or spirituality, or they would not be intervening here.

There are people in the world who want the Intervention because they think that the alien races here will somehow save humanity from itself. They believe in the same perspective as the alien races themselves. Sometimes they reach this conclusion within themselves. Sometimes this thinking is encouraged through the Intervention. Yet the result is the same — loss of human freedom and self-determination, which will be very complete. If you think about this, you will realize that this is the worst possible scenario for you.

This is why the Creator is providing the preparation for the Greater Community. This is why it must be learned and taken to heart. This is why the awareness must be gained. People must face their fear and anxiety and realize the situation they are in. They must gain a new understanding of where they stand in the universe and their role and responsibility as the native peoples and stewards of this world. They must exercise the power that they have individually and collectively to preserve their own native grounds.

Your spiritual understanding needs to change for you to realize what God has given humanity to preserve the advancement of human freedom, understanding and cooperation. In the universe, these must be defended. You need to recognize that you have to outgrow your fantasies and your ideals, even your demands and expectations, to see the situation clearly. The Creator has asked the allies of humanity to be observers, to provide commentary and to present their message so that humanity can begin to gain a Greater Community perspective.

God has given a teaching about the mental environment and Knowledge. Learning the way of Knowledge is an individual spiritual journey for each person. Knowledge is the greater intelligence that lives within you. It knows how to deal with the Greater Community. Knowledge is not governed by human beliefs, assumptions, preoccupations, deceptions, ideals or ambitions. It is pure. It is the holy part of you. It knows. Your mind thinks. Knowledge knows. The gulf between them seems great, but they can be united together. And this is the ultimate goal of your spiritual development. This gift of Greater Community Spirituality is meant to give human freedom a real foundation, to empower the individual, to empower the group, to empower humanity, which is losing power every day to those who are intervening in the world.

We hope this discourse provides clarity, but it is really only the first step. Do not think you can read this discourse or read The Allies of Humanity Briefings and say, “Well, I understand now. I know what to do.” You do not yet know what to do. But you may be beginning to gain an understanding. If this stirs something within you deeply, then Knowledge within you is being activated. But there is much to learn ahead.

Humanity’s encounter with the realities of life beyond this world is a new threshold, perhaps the greatest threshold that humanity has ever faced. The learning will have to be rapid. Do not think you already know or understand. You do not. You may have an idea. You may experience a resonance with this message. You may feel it is important, but you still have to train and prepare. You don’t climb the highest mountain in the world because you love mountains. You don’t climb the highest mountain in the world because you have hiking boots. You have to train and prepare, or you won’t make it.

This is the challenge of your time. This is the greatness of your time. This is where you will find your own greatness. You will never find your greatness in your individual pursuits, for there is no greatness there. You will only find your greatness in responding to a real need in the world and to the calling that lives within you even at this moment. This is the great situation that will bring out the greatness in you, if you can respond.




2–8: SECOND COMMENTARY: Effects of the Pacification Program


It is easy to ask questions. It is more difficult to find the real answers. People are hungry for answers, but they do not have the awareness yet. So when considering the message in The Allies Briefings, people must begin to develop a Greater Community awareness and sensitivity. Just getting answers to questions does not develop this awareness or sensitivity. And indeed, even if you have the right answer, if you cannot experience it, if you cannot recognize it, if you cannot see its application, well, what good is it? It is lost on the person who is asking.

Therefore, it always comes back to developing the awareness and sensitivity and the ability to know. People want proof, and so they go to whoever they think is the expert, and the expert gives their opinions, and people say, “Ah! This must be the proof because the expert said so.” But it is all opinions. Without Knowledge, everything is just opinions in the mind. And these opinions are developed by people’s conditioning, by their attitudes and by their temperament. People can experience something and make conclusions and evaluations but be completely wrong in their estimation.

However, we are talking about higher consciousness here. We are not talking about having answers. Answers, without this higher consciousness, will not be enough, and their application will not be understood. Ultimately, you must gain this higher consciousness. This consciousness transcends human culture, human conditioning and even your biological identity. It is an awareness of life as it is moving all around you and through everything else. You need this higher consciousness to understand the plants and the animals, the weather and the movement of the world. You need this to understand the presence of negative forces in the mental environment and the presence of the Angelic Forces, which are here to serve you. And certainly, you must have this consciousness to be aware of the Greater Community forces in the world, to recognize their manifestations, their intentions and their methods. You need this higher awareness to tell friend from foe.

So when people ask a lot of questions, the real answer is the development of higher consciousness. This leads you into the mystery, where you may not be willing to go, but this is where you must go if you are going to understand. This is the mystery of your life — the mystery of what you know, the mystery of who you are, the mystery of why you are here and the mystery of what you must respond to. You are not here simply to fill your mind with more answers that cannot be recognized or understood.

This, then, moves things in the right direction. Yet of course there are people who cannot tolerate the mystery and must have answers, thinking answers will resolve their inquiry. These people will constitute the majority of people who inquire about The Allies Briefings and who will question you about it. You, personally, cannot answer all the questions there are about the Allies — who they are, where they come from, how they got here, their method of propulsion, where they are hiding and how they communicate. How can you possibly answer all these questions?

However, you can be aware of the Allies, and you have the ability to recognize the validity of their message. You have learned enough about life and about nature to understand their point of view and what they emphasize and why it is necessary. This is because of higher consciousness, not because you have answers. The Allies of Humanity Briefings promote questions. The reason they don’t answer every question is because you must develop the higher consciousness. If they told the reader everything about themselves, people would say, “Huh, I don’t believe it! Marshall’s making it all up!” You see, without the higher consciousness, people cannot make a connection.

Already you can see the effects of the Pacification Program that is being generated by the Intervention. There are already many people who have fallen prey to this, either by their own inclinations or by outside influence. Here people are led to believe that they can not really judge anything. “Well, I don’t want to be negative. I’ll be open to it.” Who told them to be open to it? “I’ll be open to whatever happens.” Who told them to be open to whatever happens? People’s critical discernment is being destroyed. So something happens and they say, “Well, you know, I don’t want to judge the situation.” What are you talking about! You need to evaluate what is happening. These people think they cannot be critical. “Well, I can’t really be critical. I don’t want to be negative.” Well, it may be necessary to speak out and say that something is really not appropriate. But these people can’t even do that. People who have been affected by this Pacification Program cannot even make a decision. They cannot look at anything and say, “Well, this is a good thing,” or “This is really not a good thing for me.” So they welcome everything, thinking that is how you must be with life.

That is not how you must be with life. It is true you must be willing to look at everything. But it is not true that you must accept everything, bond with everything, welcome everything. Of course not! Higher consciousness does not mean that you do not make critical evaluations. It simply means you view things from a higher vantage point. This does not mean that everything becomes gray. It means that everything becomes clear. You clearly see what to do and what not to do, what is good and what is not good. If this is not the product of spiritual study, then someone is being disabled.

While it is true you must learn not to judge a situation based upon your conditioning or beliefs, ultimately you must judge a situation based upon Knowledge, the Spiritual Intelligence that lives within you. This is the final arbiter in your discernment.

However, people do not recognize this. They take the first step and they think it is the last step. The first step is where you do not judge. This means you must learn to look and recognize something, which you cannot do if you judge it immediately. This is the first step, but people think it is the last step. The last step is very different from the first step. You do not judge in the moment because you need to see and know and recognize what you are looking at. This is discernment. You cannot be discerning if you judge things outright. Yet beyond this discernment, you must see clearly if something is good or not.

So you may recognize that the Intervention really is not good for humanity. In itself, the Intervention is not a good thing! But if you say, “Oh, I cannot judge the situation,” how will you ever know? You may want to think, “Well, it’s probably good at some other level.” A pacified person will say, “I will see how it is good for us because everything that happens is good for us.” This is not only human ignorance; this demonstrates the effects of the Pacification Program, which encourages people to trust things unwittingly, without discernment.

You can see this everywhere. You can see it in the UFO community. You can see it in spiritual communities. You can see it emerging in people all around you. The Allies Briefings will create a stir because they advocate discernment. They say, “The Intervention is not good for you.” Yet many people say, “Well, I don’t know. It must be good. I mean, it can’t be bad.” They’re befuddled. They don’t know what to think. “Well, I don’t know. I can’t really come to any decisions about it.” What are you talking about? Has your decision making become disabled? And if so, who disabled it? Why are some people thinking they must be open to everything and receptive to everything? Yes, they want to be non-judgmental, but that is only the first step. They don’t take the next step. They don’t exercise discernment. In some cases, their discernment has fallen away.

This is a critical problem. As a result of this Pacification Program, people cannot see and cannot know, and basically, though they are confused and frightened perhaps, they will just go along. “Well, I’ll just go along. I’ll just try to accept what is happening in my life.” People who are pacified can’t resist. They can’t fight against something because they don’t think it’s all right to do that. They think that everything has to be embraced. Where did this come from?

These ideas of unquestioned acceptance are prevalent in much of the spiritual teaching you see today. And people accept these ideas wholeheartedly. They think, “Well, this is the higher truth. We follow the higher truth.” Consider this in the light of the Pacification Program and you will begin to see how pervasive it really is.

People who are being pacified will be led to believe that they are gaining higher consciousness when in fact all of their power is being taken away from them. The Pacification Program is based upon an understanding of human psychology and human tendencies. Here people are conditioned to think that in order to be acceptable to God, they must basically give away what God has given them to use. “Well, to be acceptable to God, I must be meek and mild and non-judgmental and all-embracing of everything. I will look for the good in everything.”

Where did this come from? Is such acquiescence purely a human invention? Is this something that people just concoct for themselves in order to be happy in the moment? Well, in some cases, this is true. But consider the pacification of humanity. How are people pacified? They are told what they want to hear, and they are told they don’t really need to consider anything else. After all, if everything that happens to you is good, then why resist anything? Just embrace it all! This is the Pacification Program at work.

This influence is becoming omnipresent around you. People flock to places where the Intervention is operating, thinking that the “energy” there is so high. They say, “This is such an enlightening place.” Oh, my God! They are jumping into the fire. They are giving themselves away wholeheartedly. They go to these places and they feel the energy there, and they think, “Oh, this is really a powerful place. This is where it is happening!” And the longer they stay, the less they know, and the less they think they can return to their former lives. They become ever more listless and self-involved, and they become ever more dysfunctional.

This disengagement produces an anxiety at a deeper level, a level where you know that your life is not progressing and that you are not going where you need to go. Yet these people will think that this discomfort is part of their fear, or part of their psychology that must be eradicated and exorcised out of themselves. And so they will work hard to ignore the very signs that are telling them that their lives are amiss and that they are losing their lives.

They will say, “All is love. Just be loving. There is only love.” If they knew what they were talking about, actually that would be true. But they think love is simply passivity, happiness and acquiescence because that is the Pacification Program working on them. Now they are extending it to other people and becoming pacifiers themselves. And after awhile, well, they will not know what they know. And if something is really wrong, they will feel discomfort, but they will think it is just part of their psychological problem, and they will try to overlook it or remove it or bury it. And then they will do whatever is told them to do by the Intervention. They will say, “Oh, I got a message. I have to go do this. I am being guided. This is inner guidance for me.”

It will be very hard to awaken people from this. You have to awaken yourself first. People are so immersed in their listlessness and their pursuit of happiness, it’s almost like they are beyond reach. They are so lulled and so conditioned, you would have to drop a bomb in their laps to wake them up!

You can see the effects of the Pacification Program in spiritual communities in many places. Certainly not to all people, but to many people, acquiescence looks like the easy path, the easy way, the way to true happiness. Give up knowing anything, give up evaluating anything, give up resisting anything, and it looks like, “Oh, everything is just happiness from now on. Smooth sailing ahead!”

These nice people, the Intervention will simply lull them into a listless state and then basically they will not be a problem, and they will be receptive to whatever is given them. Their natural knowing will be so removed from their awareness, it will become the enemy now. They will think it is fearfulness. They will think it is negativity. And they will not want any part of it.

This is actually happening now. We are talking about an extreme case, but these extreme cases are growing in scope and magnitude. Many more people are simply falling into this state — even the young people, some of whom are especially prone to this kind of conditioning.

Consider this. True happiness comes from being true to yourself, from developing your own integrity and from living honorably with your integrity. True relationships are based upon sharing real integrity with others, building relationships of integrity, relationships that express your deeper nature and purpose in life.

However, look at the relationships of a pacified person, who says, “Well, we’re together as long as it feels good, as long as it’s okay, and if we’re not together, it’s okay, and whatever we do is okay.” But it’s not okay. And they know it’s not okay, but their natural knowing has been removed from their awareness. As a result, they say, “I will not feel those things. They disrupt my happiness, my peace, my equanimity.” And yet there is no peace or equanimity because there is no integrity, and because there is no integrity, there is no real relationship.

Do you see here how the poison is immersed in the very food that people want to eat? Spiritual food is being poisoned. How many spiritual teachers today are teaching real discernment? How many are promoting real personal integrity? How many are encouraging people to look clearly and see? How many teachers are encouraging their students to respond to the world? There are indeed some, but look around and you will see the Pacification Program being promoted unknowingly.

How perfect this is for the alien agenda. It takes time, but from their perspective, well, the results are worth it. The Intervention will then have a vast network of compliant people through which their agenda can flow. And the people will never know where it is coming from.

In another scenario, the situation becomes more complicated. Here the Intervention begins to show its darker side. Not everyone can be easily pacified. Those who cannot be pacified by the Intervention will be directed by the Intervention to judge those who oppose it. This will be particularly true for people who have extreme religious views and prejudices. These people will be directed to condemn those who do not share their views. Indeed, there are people in some religious communities who will receive messages that all the enemies of Christ must be eradicated if they cannot be saved and that the Second Coming will require the cleansing of the human family.

There are individuals today who are being so directed, and though they do not necessarily represent the leadership of these religious communities, their emphasis will grow as their frustration grows. They are waiting for the great arrival of Jesus, and they think it is not happening because of the sinfulness of the human family, sinfulness that must now be eradicated and not simply resisted. And the Jesus who will come will not be the real Jesus, but will be the Jesus prepared through the Intervention. This will be a false Jesus that they cannot really recognize because they are not developed in Knowledge. This Jesus will not bring peace but a reckoning. This reckoning will be welcomed by the followers because they are full of grievances themselves and believe that their prophecies are not being fulfilled because of the sinfulness of humanity and that this sinfulness must now be removed in order to bring Heaven on Earth.

Can you see for a moment how easy it would be for a Greater Community presence here, the Intervention, so skillful in influencing the mental environment and so aware of human tendencies and frailties, to provide this kind of influence? Can you see how, because of this manipulation, the righteous could begin to wage war against those people who disagree with them and against those who would preserve Knowledge in the world? Can you see how easy it would be for this to be generated?

Even the true believers in Christ would be targeted, for they do not share these grievances, and thus they are not in conformity with those individuals who are being directed by the Intervention. True believers in Christ would emphasize harmony and recognition and tolerance. But those being directed by the Intervention only want revenge for their failed prophecies. They want God’s punishment to be exacted, and they are willing to be the executioners. They are willing to be the judge and the jury to carry out what they believe now is God’s will. How will the Intervention eradicate its opponents? Should it gain enough power, you can see how this can be done.

Where pacification cannot be achieved, the Intervention will influence people to carry out their hostilities upon one another. As the world becomes more difficult, as resources diminish, as populations grow, as competition increases, as tragedy occurs more frequently, people’s sense of tolerance will diminish, and their grievances will be encouraged — not only by the Intervention, but certainly by those people who are ambitious and want to put themselves in positions of power. How perfectly this falls into the alien agenda, which seeks to simplify and restructure human allegiance. The Intervention does not care what religion they use so long as it can achieve these results. That is why a devout Christian, Muslim, Hindu or Buddhist must all learn the Way of Knowledge. Otherwise, how could they tell the difference between a spiritual influence and a Greater Community influence? To the undiscerning, well, it all looks like it’s coming from a higher place, from the Heavens. Who, then, can you trust?

The Intervention can create wonderful spiritual scenarios to activate those individuals who are most prone to be their messengers. It is not difficult for the Intervention to do. They simply stage a drama and put someone in the middle of it, and this person cannot tell the difference. People do not know what a Greater Community presence is. To them, it is all coming from somewhere else, not at their level, but from a higher place. So, in one scenario, an image of Jesus is projected to a zealous person, and the zealous person says, “Jesus has come to me.” And the Jesus says, “You must gather my true followers and you must denounce all others!” And the zealous follower says, “Yes, Master, yes, Master!”

Incredible? Yes. Impossible? No. If the alien agenda is to create a unified and compliant human allegiance, it must eradicate the dissident elements, the non-compliant elements. They will not do this themselves because then everyone will know that there is an Intervention. Instead, they will have human beings do it for them in the name of people’s religious convictions and prejudices. And no one will know what is behind it all. Some people will think it is Satan or Lucifer, but they will not know.

It is humanity’s ignorance that is its greatest weakness. It is humanity’s Knowledge that is its greatest strength. The Greater Community, the inhabited universe in which you live, is a very sophisticated environment of interaction and influence. If human beings are going to follow their prejudices, their hatreds and their grievances and cannot tell the difference between a spiritual and a Greater Community influence, then the Greater Community is an extremely hazardous environment. Someone in the Greater Community will eventually win you over to their Collective or to their cause. How will they do this? They will simply use what you already believe in rather than teaching you something new.

This is why learning the Way of Knowledge is so vitally important because this teaches you about the reality of life and spirituality in the Greater Community. It teaches you about the nature of manipulation and how to safeguard yourself and others. It teaches you how to recognize the effects and the manifestations of the Pacification Program and what you can do today to develop your own immunity to these forces, which are so influential on other people.

This is vitally needed in the world today. Every day men and women of good conscience are falling under persuasion that they cannot discern. It is a gradual process. But eventually they end up not even having a clue about what is happening in their lives and being hostile to any kind of correction.

As you begin to develop this Greater Community awareness yourself and to share the Allies’ message with others, you will see this resistance. You will see people’s inability to respond. It’s like someone has pulled the plug within them and now they just don’t know anything. And if they do respond at some level, they may try to pacify themselves. They will say, “Well, it’s just one point of view, and you know, we have to look for the good in this situation. We really have to embrace this situation. If the visitors are here, then they must be here for a purpose, and we have to open ourselves to this purpose. Maybe some of them are not good, but some of them are, and we have to love them to understand them.”

This is all pacification mentality. This is the easy thing to do. Just give in. And if happiness is the goal of your life, you will give in. You will compromise your integrity. You will deny your own anxieties. You will overlook the signs and the flags and the clues that tell you that something is not right here. You may tell yourself, “Well, it is all just part of the drama of life, and I will be above it all.”

Throughout the world today, the wise are retreating because the Intervention is here. Only a few are in a position to advocate. Marshall is one of those people. Yet he will need others to help him. The world has not been lost. But the risk of it being lost is increasing.

Therefore, you cannot simply retreat and go live the rural pastoral life somewhere, tuning it all out, just being happy every day, going back to nature, carrying the water jugs, planting the corn, cooking the meals and living through the seasons. That is over! If you are going to be conscious, self-determined and have your own integrity, there is no running away now. There is no heading for the woods and pretending it’s not happening.

There is no more constant therapy on oneself. In the end, the only real therapy is to become real with what you know, to stand for what you know, to learn the wisdom necessary to carry what you know and to communicate what you know compassionately and powerfully. This is what any form of real therapy must lead to. Are you going to go back and repair your childhood? Are you going to find the unrequited love that your parents did not give you? People who become too concentrated on these things become disabled. They become wheelchair bound in their own minds. They could all become advocates for the truth, but instead, all they become is advocates for therapy, and not a great deal of therapy done today leads to the truth. There is no running away. There is no fulfilling yourself personally at the expense of establishing your own integrity, knowing the truth and standing for the truth.

Humanity must become united, or it will be dominated in the Greater Community. This is so obvious when you think about it. If other forces beyond your world want your planet, its resources and human allegiance, well, if the human family is divided, you are really inviting others to move in on you. “Sure, come on! There is plenty of room for everyone!”

Those who resist the Intervention will be accused of being unenlightened and fearful. Some will be accused of resisting the Intervention to protect their special interests. And there are some people who will resist the Intervention for these interests. However, there are those who will resist the Intervention because it is an Intervention. But with the Pacification Program, who can even call it for what it is? Who can say, “This is what it is!” without incurring resistance and condemnation? This is a real problem today.

We encourage the development of people’s discernment, discretion and the application of their critical faculties. What we encourage here is not based upon personal prejudice or social conditioning, but upon Knowledge. Knowledge is the part of you that knows. It is the greater mind within you that the Creator has given to you to meet the challenges and opportunities of your life. It is the voice of conscience within you. People compare their belief systems and judge each other, but this is not what we are talking about.

We are talking about rescuing humanity from a situation which would enslave it. We are talking about preserving human freedom and self-determination and encouraging human integrity in the midst of forces from the Greater Community who are intervening in your world. Is achieving this impossible? Well, in a way, the truth always looks impossible. The promotion and preservation of the truth always looks like it’s facing insurmountable odds. But that is only because the truth is not valued, recognized and felt deeply by enough people. What will get humanity out of this predicament is the same thing that will get humanity out of every predicament. It is facing the truth and doing what needs to be done.

There are many people in the world today who are very uncomfortable because they know that something really wrong is happening. Perhaps they think that their discomfort is just their own psychological problem. Perhaps they think it is a political, economic or environmental problem alone. If they do not have a Greater Community awareness, then they have to focus their attention on something else and look for some other kind of cause. But they know that something is not right about what is happening today. Things don’t feel right. Things are moving in a direction that they should not be moving in. Something is going on that is going to change things, but not in a good way. And the people who feel this are uncomfortable. They wake up with this discomfort; they go to bed with this discomfort. It’s just there. They feel it when they are out in the world. Something is not right.

Where does this discomfort come from? Why is it there? You can meditate. You can go on vacation. You can have nice food. And you can have moments of delight. But then you return to the discomfort. Something is amiss. It’s not simply because there is poverty or war or deprivation in the world. These have always been with you. Something else is going on here. Something else is really not right.

Yet you look around and most people are oblivious. They don’t know it. They don’t feel it. And they don’t care. Or they have good excuses. “Well, you know. It’s just human nature,” or “You know, it’s people’s fear. They just need to be more loving.” And you hear really lame excuses for something that is tremendous.

Your awareness needs to grow. Your fire needs to grow and become stronger — the fire of truth, the fire of Knowledge. Otherwise, your fire is always snuffed out, extinguished by personal ambivalence, personal fear, personal preference or the kind of listlessness that is the product of the Pacification Program.

The light of truth must become strong because there are greater forces of darkness here now. The deception is deep and complex. The denial is pervasive, and the acquiescence is pervasive and growing more so every day. Only Knowledge within you can penetrate it.

Humanity is losing its freedom, slowly but surely, and in such a way that this loss will be very complete because of the cleverness of the agenda behind it. This can happen because of the predispositions of so many people today. This can happen because of the effects of the Pacification Program, which is so well established now in many parts of the world.

Therefore, it will take courage and a strong advocacy to activate those people who already feel the discomfort, who already feel the problem but cannot identify it or its source. And it will take a strong advocacy to reach those people who have begun to acquiesce but whose sense of integrity is intact enough that they know that there is a problem within them and around them and who are struggling to maintain their clarity of mind as the fog descends.

For those who have acquiesced completely, there may be no answer. They may be beyond your reach. It would take a Greater Power, the Angelic Presence, to reach them. But even here, it is quite difficult because the pacification can become so complete that people will think that the very hand of Grace that is trying to rescue them is the very thing they must avoid.

You can only reach those who are uncomfortable, who have a sense of knowing that their integrity is being violated and who have begun to feel the persuasion of the Intervention but have not acquiesced to it. There are many people in this camp. You are not speaking to a minority. This advocacy will take time. It is not something that can be done in a few weeks, months or years. It is something that must be continuous.

Humanity’s emergence into the Greater Community will be quite difficult because of the Intervention. It will require that a higher consciousness be cultivated, protected and maintained in enough people. It is going to require a greater level of discernment and discretion, greater care about who you associate with and what you communicate. It is going to require a greater awareness and sensitivity to the world and to those forces who are in the world now casting an influence over humanity.

Developing this awareness and this sensitivity and establishing one’s personal integrity and relationships that represent this integrity are absolutely fundamental for success. This is what will keep Knowledge alive in the world. This is what will build freedom and keep it alive in the world. This is what will keep humanity intact. For once you lose your integrity and your freedom, it is very difficult to regain them. Very difficult. Even when people have sacrificed their integrity for relationships or for money or for advantage, even under these more normal circumstances, it is very difficult to regain it. You have to mount tremendous effort and take risks. It is easier, then, to stay out of trouble than it is to get out. You do not want to become a prisoner in your own world. You do not want to become a prisoner in your own mind. You do not want to become a prisoner to anyone or anything else.

If you could have a Greater Community perspective in these matters, you would recognize that though humanity has great difficulties and serious weaknesses, it is still relatively free in the universe. Of course, living on the surface of your world in isolation, you cannot see this because you do not have the perspective. That is why The Allies Briefings are so valuable, because they give you a perspective that you yourself could not otherwise have. How could you compare yourself to the rest of life in the universe? How could you understand the value of your freedom if you could not see that freedom like this is rare and must be protected well in the Greater Community?

This is why the Allies provide a greater perspective. Yet some people will complain, “Well, they do not give us answers. They do not tell us dates and facts and figures and locations.” That is not what is important. It is the understanding, the perspective, the higher consciousness that are critically important. Who cares where the Allies come from? The names of their worlds would be meaningless to you. You are not going to be able to go there for so long! Certainly not in your lifetime. The Allies are providing what is important for you to know about the Greater Community and about the Intervention. They are telling you who is here, why they are here and what they are doing. They are pointing the way to what must be done to counteract this Intervention, which includes the development of Greater Community awareness and a higher consciousness.

This development must be emphasized always. It is so vitally important, or people will miss the whole point. They will just assume that this is merely some phenomenal thing that probably isn’t true anyway. Some will say, “These Allies don’t even tell us their names or how they got here.” This is stupidity! If God sends an emissary, do you deny the emissary because he does not answer trivial questions? God has sent the Allies here to help educate humanity and to warn humanity of the grave risks that it faces at this time. Is this going to be denied because some trivial information is not provided?

This is why the development of Greater Community awareness is vitally important now. This is why higher consciousness must be promoted and preserved. This is why you keep Knowledge alive in the world. It is this that must be supported and honored at this great turning point.

Honor this material. Recognize it as being a gift of Grace. Respond to it. Have the courage to do this. Resist the pacification. Resist the influence to become listless and unresponsive to your own Knowledge. Resist the temptation to devote yourself to your own happiness above and beyond everything else. Resist the temptation to attack people of other faiths, cultures or nations. Resist the Intervention through awareness, through advocacy, through understanding. Promote human cooperation, unity and integrity.




2–9: THIRD COMMENTARY: Understanding the Intervention


The Allies of Humanity Briefings will arouse many questions. This is good because these questions must be asked and considered. It is not merely that answers should be readily given, but that the questions be deeply considered and that the questioners think for themselves what the answers could possibly be.

If humanity is ever to become strong and self-determined within the Greater Community, then it must have more people who can think independently and critically and consider things deeply.

The Allies themselves will remain mysterious. For some people, this will be difficult, but it must be this way, for the Allies really are spying on the Intervention, and to protect themselves, the Allies must remain hidden.

The Allies themselves will not divulge much information about their origin, their identities and so forth. They claim that this information would be meaningless to people, but really the greater reason for this is that the Allies want to maintain their anonymity. This anonymity protects them and their sources.

It is perhaps difficult to accept these things at first because people do not understand the difficulties of life in the Greater Community. They do not understand how Knowledge must be transmitted from one race to another, particularly when there is a situation like an Intervention underway. In a manner of speaking, humanity is under siege, though perhaps this seems too strong a word because the activities of the “visitors” seem so subtle and evasive. But given the results of this Intervention, the word “siege” here really is appropriate. If you try to help another nation that is under siege and you want to remain hidden, then you have to protect yourself and your sources and communicate in such a way that the message can be dispensed effectively with minimum risk of the information being destroyed or corrupted in any way.

This is why the message is being given to one person. If it were given to many people, they could perhaps misinterpret it, and they would have different versions of what they had been given, and then they would contend with each other, and the whole message could be lost or corrupted. As long as this one person can continue to receive the information, and if he has enough support around him, then this is the best protection against misunderstanding and against conflict arising. Since this is information that humanity cannot gain on its own, it must be delivered by those in the Greater Community who are attempting to help you and who are concerned about your freedom in the future.

How can humanity on its own understand the intricacies of relations in the Greater Community? This is not possible. And if any attempt were made to explain these things, well, it would seem fantastic, and people would have no way of verifying it for themselves, unless of course they were strong with Knowledge.

Therefore, the Allies will remain mysterious. Some people will understand this. Some people will not understand this. The Allies cannot reveal much about their own history beyond what they have told you in the Briefings. Some people can accept this. Others will become suspicious. But what we are really talking about here is discretion. You do not reveal everything to people at the outset when they can barely understand or accept your initial offerings. Their first questions must go unanswered because they do not have enough trust in their contact, and they do not have enough trust in their own Knowledge, the Spiritual Intelligence within them, to be able to discern what is true and what is not true.

Because there is so little honesty in the world, what is truly honest will be suspected and will be considered devious, especially by those who are devious themselves. It is, in fact, very difficult to present something pure to the world without it being defiled or compromised, even at the outset. The one person chosen to receive these messages is chosen because he has no position in the world, because he has no social standing and because he has been well prepared for this. Yes, he will have questions, and he does. Yes, he will be afraid of certain things, and he has been. But as long as he can receive the message and present it in a pure form, whether he himself can fully understand it or not, that is the important thing. Because the message is in a pure form and does not conform to people’s expectations, preferences or beliefs, at the outset not everyone will be able to comprehend it. And there will be much discussion and much suspicion, and many fears will be projected upon it, particularly by people whose previous understanding is challenged in any way by this new revelation.

Obviously, people would want the Allies to be many things. They would want the Allies to be saviors. They would want the Allies to be rescuers. They would want the Allies to intervene and prevent any other Greater Community force from having access to your world. And people will feel, perhaps, like they have been betrayed or let down because the Allies are not here to protect humanity. But think about this. If the Allies were here to protect humanity, they would have to continue to protect humanity, which would require them, in effect, to take control of your world. All governments in your world would then have to be coordinated with the activities of the Allies. This then would lead to your loss of freedom, even loss of freedom to a friend.

It is not the Allies’ purpose to circumvent human authority. It is not their purpose to change governments or allegiances between nations. Their purpose is only to observe the Intervention and to deliver their commentaries. If you want someone to save you, you will give them your power to do so. The Allies will not accept this. And even if they mounted a force necessary to eject the visitors who are interfering in human affairs, to end the Intervention, well, you would have warfare at your borders. And even the Allies’ home worlds would be threatened because they are here without any official permission from other worlds or from trading unions or anything like this. What we mean by this is that the Allies are really not supposed to be here doing what they are doing. If you think about this, you will understand. Even in your world, your governments have secret agents trying to get information, trying to intervene in certain ways, either for good or for ill.

The only thing that is going to save humanity is humanity itself. And for this to be possible, humanity must have a greater understanding and take a very sober and objective approach to life in the universe. As it is now, generally speaking, most people take a very romantic view of life in the universe. They are dazzled by technology and want more. They think “contact” will bring them untold benefits. They think that advanced nations will teach humanity how to live in peace, how to maintain the environment and how to elevate the standard of living for people everywhere.

Think about this. Is this possible? Do you think people want to have their lives changed and controlled by unknown forces? The visitors may promise these things because it feeds right into people’s expectations and desires. The visitors tell people, “Oh, of course, we will give you peace and equanimity. We have no war.” Do you wish to give over the authority of your life and have your life and circumstances completely controlled for a mere promise of greater technology or a promise of peace and equanimity in the world? There is peace in the prison because everyone is controlled. But is this really peace? Or is this simply the restraint of war?

Then there are people in the world whose financial positions will be threatened by the Intervention, and they will either resist the Intervention to protect their wealth and their privileges, or they will attempt to unite with the Intervention for their own benefit. Their uniting with the Intervention represents a very dangerous scenario, and one must be quite sober and objective to deal with it effectively.

Many people will simply go into denial and say, “Well, this can’t possibly be! I don’t believe this. Advanced civilizations don’t behave like this. And if they are here, they could help us, and we should welcome them!”

And of course there are many people who simply cannot even consider these things because the reality of the Intervention is beyond their range of comprehension entirely. Life in the universe? Well, fine, maybe at the far ends of the galaxy, but not here!

And then there will be people who will say, “Oh, these Allies are right! We have to defend ourselves! Let’s build bunkers and live underground and store up weapons and mistrust everyone and everything.”

So, it is possible that The Allies Briefings may create some hysteria. It is certain there will be denial. It is certain they will be condemned and attacked by people from different viewpoints. But this is the risk that must be taken when a vital message is delivered, into your world or into any world.

Can the truth be received here without anxiety and condemnation? Well, look at the history of the great Spiritual Teachers who have become public with their messages. That gives you a very good demonstration. A few people are reached, and many are outraged. There will be outrage over The Allies Briefings, but a few people will be reached, and they will be able to reach other people. And over time, a new understanding and awareness will slowly work its way into the human consciousness. This awareness is vitally important, for humanity is grossly unprepared for the Greater Community, so unprepared, in fact, that the situation has become rather desperate. Something has to be done or humanity will give away the keys to the kingdom freely, openly, with very little question.

Look at the history of the peoples of your world, the native peoples of the world, those who simply acquiesced and said, “Oh, yes, fine. Welcome. Move on in. We’ll live here, and you can live over there, and everything will be fine.” Look what happened here. Is this new scenario really very different? It is a very difficult situation to be the race that is discovered, to be the natives of a new world, being visited by others who seek the values and wealth and opportunities of the new world. Such is the predicament that humanity is in now.

Yet is this a great tragedy? It could become a great tragedy, depending on how people respond. However, it is also a great opportunity, for the presence of forces from the Greater Community intervening into human affairs is really the one great chance for humanity to unite itself and to become strong in its own defense. It takes something of this magnitude to overcome the tribal animosities and histories between cultures. It takes something greater, a greater problem, to unite people.

It is like being in a house on fire. If people in one room won’t speak to people in another room, and the people upstairs hate the people downstairs, and the house is on fire, well, you either help each other, or you perish! The world is like a house on fire. It is on fire through environmental degradation and through increasing conflicts between nations and cultures. But the greater fire in the world is the presence of the visitors. The greater fire is the Intervention.

Humanity can deal with these other problems though it has not done so sufficiently yet. But can it deal with the presence of those from beyond the world who possess skills that humanity has not yet cultivated? You can clean up your own backyard. You can change the structure of government. You can slowly, with great difficulty, bring greater justice into the world, and indeed this must be done. But can you deal with the reality of intelligent life from beyond your world without romance, without hopeful expectation, without greed? Can you deal with this objectively and honestly? Can you say to the visitors, “All right, if you are here, then you must reveal yourselves and your intentions, and we will determine if you have a right to be here or not!”

As the Allies describe in their Briefings, humanity should not let any foreign race upon its soil without permission from the population. Obviously, under current circumstances, this permission was never asked for and never granted. That is why it is an Intervention and not a visitation. Visitors are welcomed in. They have asked permission to visit. They are here on a visit, with the permission of those being visited. But an Intervention does not have this permission. It is forced upon you. Some people may say, “Perhaps the visitors did ask for permission, and it was denied by the governments of the world.” Well, even if this were the case, the visitors should be on their way and not be here. Even if the governments of the world made a mistake in not welcoming the visitation, if it was not welcomed, then the visitors should not be here — unless they came to conquer and to intervene for this purpose.

Why else would they be here and getting so involved in human affairs, taking such great interest in human physiology, psychology and religion? Do you think they are lacking these things and that is why they are visiting? Do you think they are going to steal the books out of your library? They could get all this information simply by being observers and collecting all of your data and information and transmissions and so forth. They would not need to be here interfering in human affairs to learn about you. Some people think, “Well, they need our reproductive abilities. Or they need our spirituality. Or they need our emotions. Or they need our religion.” This is all foolishness. This is turning a blind eye to the obvious.

Why do nations intervene with one another? Think about this. It is no different in the Greater Community. The obvious is being missed. People want to think of it in other ways because it is easier to deal with. For goodness sakes, yes! Some people say, “Oh, they are here because they need our help! They need our blood supplies. Or they need our religion and we will help them and we will feel so good about ourselves and they will be so grateful.”

Some people think, “Well, they are here to bring us new technology and help us end pollution.” Do you think people and governments would use this new technology in such a way? Nations in the world would step upon each other to have this new technology for superiority and strength because nations are competing with each other.

Some people say, “Well, they are here because they want to study us.” Why would they want to study you? They could study you by receiving your transmissions, which are being projected out into space. Your information is very accessible. It does not require them to be here to study you. And why would they want to study you anyway? Why would so much time and effort be spent in studying human beings? Do you think this is a science project? Do you think this is a cultural exploration? Do people think that humanity is so fascinating, so marvelous and so remarkable that other races would spend this kind of time studying you?

The only reason that races are studied is for economic or political advantage in the Greater Community. And these races are studied without their permission. Would you want someone to say, “We would like to study you. Would you be our laboratory experiment for the rest of your life? We will try not to harm you.” Would you agree to that? Especially if you found out that you were being used in order for your investigators to take advantage of everything you are and everything you have? Many people think, “Well, the visitors are here to help us,” but really they are here to help themselves. And people are making it very easy for them to do this.

So you might ask, “Well, why aren’t more people aware of this?” The answer to that is difficult because it deals with several different factors. The first is people’s cultural conditioning and religious conditioning that really do not allow for the reality of intelligent life in the universe, regardless of their perhaps liberal views on the subject. When it comes right down to it, there is no place in human awareness for life in the universe, unless it is at the level of a primitive life form, of course. A piece of bacteria is fine. An intelligent race intervening in human affairs is not fine.

The governments of the world will not reveal what they know because they have no defense. And the defenses they do have they cannot fully employ without notifying the public, and they do not trust the public, their own populations, to support such an effort without going into panic. Would the government of your country publicly announce, “We have an Intervention going on from races beyond the world. We don’t really understand their technology. We are not sure of all of their activities. And we have no defense against them”?

People think they should be told, but most people could not handle it. They could not take it in. They would run and try to hide somewhere. They would think the end of the world was at hand.

There are people who are aware of the Intervention but say, “Well, we must be very careful not to come to any premature conclusions here. I mean, we have to gather more facts. We need more evidence.” Really? For what? Can’t you just see this and know this for what it is? Are you going to spend the rest of your life piecing it together in little tiny pieces? This is not a science experiment. This is the interaction between life forms!

If you were diagnosed with a serious illness, would you want to become part of a laboratory experiment? Or would you want to get cured? You would likely want a path of healing established as soon as possible, and if you were sincere about relieving yourself of your illness, you would give it all of your attention. But certain people treat the Intervention as if it were a science experiment, and they are going to take a very long time and piece it all together, and they don’t want to be wrong. Meanwhile, their world is being undermined right underneath their feet. They don’t know it, and they don’t see it, and they don’t want to come to these conclusions because they seem unscientific, and they seem outrageous, and where is the proof? And what is proof? How much do you have to see before it is clear? Given the clandestine nature of the Intervention, well, not much is being shown to people. Not in broad daylight anyway.

So, attempting to be scientific, you piece it together, and you are on the path of seeking the truth, and you don’t get the truth, and you haven’t gotten the truth, and you won’t get the truth. And you are ambivalent about getting the truth because if you really see what it is, well, your science experiment is over. And now you must really act! You must really do something! And your colleagues will look at you like you are crazy, like you have lost your mind, like you have given up your reason and objectivity and taken a wild and outrageous position. So, as much as the truth is sought, at least in theory, it is denied, and no one wants to take the risk of knowing anything. This is a very hard thing to come to terms with, by the way. We understand this. This may be the hardest thing you have ever come to terms with, other than your own mortality.

We don’t expect people to simply accept this at first notice. But we must address those tendencies, beliefs and attitudes that prevent people from knowing this at any time. You don’t want to wait for the proof because then it will be too late. By then, there will be very little recourse.

Then people will say, “Well, the visitors have really taken over everything now. I guess it means that’s why they’re here!” And what do you do then? Protest? Write letters to your senator? Complain to your friends? This is a very serious situation. People must take risks here to see and to know. But even in taking risks, you need some help because you cannot see what is beyond your borders.

Could the Native American peoples understand the intricacies and competition between European nations? No, they could not. Not without help from a more mysterious source. And indeed at that time, the Angelic Presence was active in trying to notify the peoples of the Americas that great and tragic changes were coming. But like yourselves, the Natives could not respond because it was outside the realm of their world view. It did not fit with their beliefs or understanding, and so such revelations, to the extent they could be made available to people, were largely rejected or ignored. Do you think that the Angelic Presence just looked the other way and let the Native American peoples be obliterated?

People want things to work out well. They want to be comfortable. And so they do not look, and if they look, they do not see, and if they see, they do not comprehend because of what they want. People do not want war, and, as a result, they deny war until war overtakes them. Instead of eradicating the conflict at the very outset, as soon as the spark is lit, they wait for the fire to reach them, and then they say, “Oh, we have to stop this!”

People ask, “Well, what can we really do?” There is a great deal you can really do. You must begin with awareness. You must have an understanding of what you are dealing with. You must not allow any alien force to set foot on the soil of this world without the express permission from the people of your world. You have these rights. You must exercise them.

Here it is necessary to take a very prosaic view of life in the universe. Look up at the stars. They are physical. This is not the Heavens you are looking at. This is not your heavenly state. Everyone in the universe, living in physical life, must deal with the rigors of physical life — survival, competition, hardship, deprivation. Technology does not end these requirements and these difficulties. In fact, it can make things even more complicated. It solves some problems and creates others.

You must have an adult view of life in the universe. If you have an adolescent view, you are not going to understand. And your lack of comprehension could truly be tragic. The awareness must be established. This is the purpose of The Allies Briefings — to establish the awareness, not to answer every question, not to give you a complete understanding, but to give you an awareness. Gaining an awareness is being alerted to something. It does not mean all your questions regarding it are answered or even addressed. But it does mean you are aware of something.

The Allies’ message is very simple and very short, and in many ways very general because it is here to arouse awareness and to correct misunderstanding. That is its purpose. Beyond this awareness, there must be a development in spiritual understanding, an awareness of the mental environment and the willingness to establish greater cooperation between nations and cultures.

This is a worldwide problem. It is not a problem for Americans or British or Chinese. It is a worldwide phenomenon. The Intervention does not prize one race over another, except insofar as one race can help achieve the intentions of those who are intervening. In this, there is much emphasis on America because it is the most powerful, influential nation. But this is a worldwide phenomenon.

You as human beings are being challenged. Your right to be here, your right to be free and self-determined in the universe, is being challenged. Those who are intervening in human affairs believe that you cannot rule yourselves and that you will destroy the world, and so they feel that it is their right and privilege to intervene. Their attitude is, “Well, these human beings! Look at them! They are like animals! We will bring order and structure here.” And some people will think, “Oh, that is wonderful! Finally, we will have order and structure.”

Do you really want order and structure imposed upon you in this way and to this degree? This is not the way that humanity will advance or become elevated. This is not the way humanity will establish cooperation and peace within the world. Do you want to be occupied? Because that is what you are facing. A vast, global occupation. And many people will say, “Well, I just can’t deal with this. I have other problems.” We say, “What other problems do you have that are more important than this?” Yes, there are other things in everyone’s life that must be dealt with and resolved, but not at the expense of this awareness. This is the most important awareness that one can have in life, in this world, at this time.

So, you begin with awareness, and then you must study and learn things about life in the universe. And where can you learn this? At the university? In church? From your parents? From your friends? From the newspaper? Or a magazine? What teaches you about life in the universe can be learned in part from human history. The understanding of how the world has evolved, and the forces that have shaped it, and how nations have interacted with each other will teach you a great deal about life in the universe because it is not different. It is only happening on a much greater scale with many more different influences and participants. You need a very sober view of intelligent life in the universe. And you must understand, counter to what is believed by many today, that technology will not save you. It will only change you. Technology has not saved any race in the universe. It has only changed them.

Yes, there are nations that can overwhelm and dominate others because of technology. But these invading nations have been changed themselves by technology. Technology actually makes you vulnerable in the Greater Community. If you have technology that no one else has, well, everyone wants what you have now. And how are you going to defend what you have and protect what you have? It is a problem that very wealthy people face even in your world. How are they going to protect their wealth and their privilege? This totally changes their lives, their friends, their priorities, and can indeed make their lives truly miserable, and often does.

The best position in the Greater Community is to be self-sufficient, independent and extremely discreet. This is wisdom on a greater scale. Yet you can understand from human culture and your own history how this can be true and why this is true. Does the person who just won a million dollars go out and tell everybody? Well, things will change if they do. Discretion, discernment. Very important. More important now than ever before.

Therefore, a great deal can be learned from your own history. You take an objective view and say, “Well, this is what happens when nations of different capabilities interact.”

Yet many people still think, “It’s manifest destiny. It must be this way. It’s the way it is. And it can’t be changed. And it would have happened this way anyway.” That is ridiculous! It could have happened in many different ways. It could have gone many different ways. History did not have to turn out the way it did. And there are other people in the world who think, “Well, whatever happens is the right thing to happen.” This is even more ridiculous.

Yet while much may be learned by studying human history, culture and psychology, there must be new information as well, a new perspective. It is not simply new information you need as much as a larger perspective. If you look at things the way you have always looked at them, you are going to see what you have always seen. And nothing new is going to be revealed. So, to have a new understanding, a new revelation, requires a different perspective. Otherwise, the mind simply protects what it already believes in and fends off or fights off anything that challenges that.

A new spiritual perspective and an understanding of spirituality in the universe is being provided through The Teaching in Greater Community Spirituality. Instead of receiving this gift from the Creator, some people may say, “Well, this is all coming from one person. He is going to become so rich and powerful!” Ha! We hope he doesn’t get destroyed, actually. Is it a blessing to have all of this given through you into the world? Is it really a blessing to be maligned and condemned or even deified by people? We think it is a great burden and a great sacrifice to accept such a responsibility. The best thing you can hope for is anonymity, but you won’t have it because sooner or later people will find out. “Well, this person really says that he has something that no one else has,” and then everyone goes crazy about it. “How can someone say this! Who does he think he is! He must be cavorting with the devil! And if he is cavorting with the Angels, well, why does he get to be the one and not me?” You see, it is hard to be a messenger.

Yet someone has to do it. And a person needs great assistance or it cannot be done. They must have great self-trust, great confidence in the Creator and great discernment to tell whether they are being correctly or incorrectly guided. Certainly, anyone who is protecting their money or their social standing could not be in such a position without great personal conflict.

Therefore, new information is needed here, a new perspective, a Greater Community perspective. You have to start thinking like someone who lives in a Greater Community and not simply someone who lives in a neighborhood or a town. Perspective can be learned. And when you gain a new perspective, particularly a greater perspective like this, well, you can see and know things that simply were not obvious before. And these things will not be based upon speculation but upon clear observation.

At some point, you will say, “Well, of course no one should be visiting us without our permission!” That becomes obvious. Right now, people never even think to ask that question. “Well, I don’t know….” At some point, you become aware that spiritually advanced races do not go around intervening in other people’s worlds. They may send messages through observers, like the Allies of Humanity, but they do not intervene. The spiritually advanced in the universe do not do that, regardless of their cultures, their worlds, their temperaments or their natures because this is wisdom and wisdom is universal. So just because someone can fly in a spacecraft and get here quickly, relatively speaking, to think that they are spiritually advanced, well, that is ignorance. So when you gain a Greater Community perspective, you realize that the wise do not intervene. The wise do not come here and change everything.

There are circumstances where genetic material will be given to an evolving race, but that is not what is occurring in the world at this time, we can assure you. Humanity has everything it needs to be successful. It does not need advanced technology. It does not need alien genetic material. Anyone who tries to tell you otherwise is either part of the Intervention or is unwittingly supporting it.

Humanity needs a new perspective. But within you, and within the human race, is the seed of Knowledge, your Spiritual Mind. This Knowledge is ancient and has been with you all along. If you can discover it, it will reveal to you what you need to know and what you need to do. Everyone who is born into the world today is born with the potential for understanding the Greater Community because this is the time when humanity gains contact with life in the universe, which we call the Greater Community. This understanding is in you already.

If any alien race tells you, “Well, we are here to enhance your genetic code,” you must not believe this. It is not true. If you really want to be a laboratory animal, if you really want to be subjected to an occupation, if you think this is what it means to have contact with life in the universe, then what is going to change your mind? Experiencing the occupation and waking up one day and saying, “My God! I am no longer a free person and I have no recourse”?

Is it too audacious to say that this is the most important problem in the world and that God has given an answer and the answer has been given in a teaching? Is it too audacious to say that this is the most important problem in the world and God has given an answer, and the answer is being given through one person? How else would the answer be given? Would it be given to a hundred people? The message would never get beyond them if it did.

When Jesus came, were there a hundred Jesuses, all competing with each other? “Well, my Jesus is the real Jesus, but yours is not!” That is not how revelation is brought to the world because it does not work.

We are beyond the world. We are the Angels. So we can say audacious things and then go somewhere else. We don’t have to deal with the repercussions. We just deliver the message and people either go crazy with it or they become illuminated by it. But we’re somewhere else. It does not affect us.

However, for the messenger, it is another story. He has to face all of the reaction that will occur. It is not an easy job. Be glad that you are not given this job. But understand that as your realization occurs, you will have to advocate for this awareness too. You will not have the difficulty that the messenger has, but you will face all the things that we are talking about. You will see the effects of the Intervention. You will see the effects of the Pacification Program. You will see how listless people are, how critical they are and how much they are in denial. And all of their outrage and all of their suspicion and all of their fear and all of their avoidance, you will see. It will be as clear as day. And you will understand then how revelation occurs in the world. When the message has to be given and time is of the essence, this is how it occurs. This is the difficulty. This is the challenge.

The real problem ultimately is not with the Intervention, though that is a real problem. The bigger problem is human response-ability. The ability of people to respond. The lack of response. The ignorant response. The negative response. If people cannot respond, well, the world will be given away.

There are not many visitors here in the world. Their numbers are not that great. But their job is being made easy because of human acquiescence and human ignorance. Again, the response. The ability to respond. Response-ability. If there is no response-ability, well, people will not respond, and the occupation will happen, right beneath their feet. And people will think, “Oh, well, something is going on in the world. Things certainly are changing!” And it will seem to be okay until they find out what it really is.

That is why at this time an urgent message is being delivered. The awareness is the first thing. Then you must learn about life in the Greater Community, which you can begin to do by looking at your own world objectively. Then you must begin to gain a Greater Community perspective and learn about life and spirituality in the universe. This is now being presented in the teaching on Greater Community Spirituality. Not everyone will be able to learn this teaching, but enough people in many places will need access to it in order to comprehend what is going on.

Humanity could end the Intervention tomorrow if it were informed and aware. Humanity could prevent a future Intervention of this kind if it were informed and aware and united. People are so preoccupied with themselves that their borders are undefended. Oh, yes, they have borders, between each other, tremendous borders, walls and resistance and hostility. But your borders to space are undefended. You have no walls to prevent the outside from coming in because you do not think there is an outside that can come in or that will come in.

This, then, is a time for courage, trust and honesty. Time for a real reckoning within yourself. Read The Allies Briefings and ask yourself, “What do I really know?” not “What do I want?” or “What do I prefer?” or “What do I believe?” but “What do I really know here? Is this really happening?” Consult Knowledge within yourself if you can, not your ideas or your fears or your beliefs, but something deeper within you. That is where the real confirmation will happen. And it will take great courage to ask this because this awareness will change your life. It will set you free. And it will give you direction. But you must be willing to have this change within yourself. This is the revelation that happens within each person. It is much resisted. Much delayed. But if it can take place, it is the most valuable thing.

We send our blessings to you and ask that you receive this counsel and consider it for yourself, for you must make the ultimate decision. We can only inform. We cannot control. The Presence of the Teachers is with you.





---------------------------
ALLIES OF HUMANITY – BOOK 3
---------------------------




3–1: The Reality of Contact


We give greetings from far away now. In our first two sets of communications to you, we were able to be in the proximity of your world in a hidden location in your solar system. But now we have been forced to flee, since our revelations have become public. The Intervention that is occurring in your world by those extraterrestrial races who would seek to take advantage of a weak and divided humanity have searched for us, seeking to find us and to destroy us so that we may not report on their activities in the world and thus reveal their hidden plans and motivations.

The people of your world must know that you are emerging now into a Greater Community of intelligent life, a Greater Community that you know nothing about and have not yet adapted to. It is a Greater Community of advanced worlds, for you live in a developed and populated part of the universe where large nations have established intricate and long-standing trade agreements with one another, where there are rules of engagement and rules of conduct that all trading nations in this region must observe.

You know nothing of these things, of course, still being isolated within your world. Yet your world is being visited by small groups — small non-military groups, commercial forces, you might say — that are here seeking advantages and resources. They recognize that humanity at this moment is a weak and divided race and is superstitious and uneducated regarding the affairs of the Greater Community in which you have always lived.

We have been sent as observers from several different free nations in this region of space, to observe the extraterrestrial Intervention that is occurring in the world today, to report on its activities and to reveal its hidden motives and agenda so that the human family might become aware and prepared for the reality of Contact. It is this reality of Contact that is essential for your understanding.

Your world is a prize. It is greatly valued by others. You are unsuspecting and perhaps might assume that advanced technological races are advanced spiritually as well. But alas, this is not the case. The path of technological development, more often than not, leads away from real freedom and the true nature of spirituality as it exists in all manifest intelligent life.


This represents but one of the important lessons that the human family must now learn if it is to regard the presence of foreign visitors with clarity, wisdom and discernment and if it is to recognize the great need for humanity to establish its own rules of engagement regarding all present and future visitations to your world. Such rules have not been established. Humanity stands naked in the universe, vulnerable to intervention and persuasion by small, cunning groups of resource explorers and economic Collectives — those who travel within the local universe seeking advantages and opportunities for themselves and for their clients.

You of course have no way of understanding this, having never ventured far enough into space to witness these activities and to learn about the nature of interactions and commerce in this part of the universe. So you do not know what to expect, and in the absence of wisdom, clarity and informed awareness, many people who are aware of the Intervention are misunderstanding its presence and are construing it incorrectly, believing it is here for the benefit of humanity.

It is because humanity has not responded with wisdom appropriately to this Intervention that we, as representatives of the free nations in your vicinity of space, have been sent here to observe this Intervention, to learn of its activities within your world and to reveal to you the nature of these activities, their purpose and indeed the nature of such Interventions as they so frequently occur everywhere in the Greater Community.

You are emerging into a competitive environment in space, a complex environment, an environment where long-standing rules have been established to maintain stability amongst nations and worlds whose establishments are far older than anything that has been established on Earth.

In this regard, you are but a young race, young and reckless — a young race who is beginning to experience the benefits and the liabilities of technological power; a young race who is despoiling a beautiful planet, a planet that is valued by others; a young race without wisdom and foresight who is eroding away its self-sufficiency — self-sufficiency which is always required for any emerging nation to maintain its freedom and its self-determination in the universe.

There is so much now for humanity to learn and to do. Great actions must be taken, but they must be informed by a clear understanding of the universe into which you are emerging — how nations trade and function, what restrains them, what encourages them, the freedoms they have to intervene in a world such as yours and the restraints that prevent them from undertaking certain activities.

Even now, though we are far from your world, we can report on these things and give you a clearer understanding of the nature of interaction, trade and commerce in your part of the galaxy, in this densely populated area of the universe. With this, we hope we can impart a great encouragement for the human family to utilize its native wisdom, to build upon its great strengths and to not fall prey to persuasion or self-deception that is always a great risk at thresholds such as these.

Emerging into the Greater Community is the greatest threshold that any race can face. Many races fail at this threshold, falling under the persuasion and domination of foreign powers. Many nations fail because they have destroyed their self-sustaining resources and have become helpless and dependent upon others who, through leverage and through commercial manipulation, were able to gain control of these young, emerging races.

It is a threshold with great risks and yet one with immense opportunities. In the face of the Greater Community, young races must unite, they must correct their destructive behavior, and they must focus on establishing the security of their world and its boundaries to space.

We trust in this third set of Briefings that we may be able to illustrate the importance of this and provide our encouragement and our faith that humanity has the strength still and the integrity still to mount a great effort on its own behalf and to lay the foundation for becoming a free and self-determined race in the universe.

For you must know that freedom is rare in the Greater Community and once it has been established, it must be carefully protected and watched over. Large nations that are not free, that do not provide freedom for their citizens, always regard the presence of free worlds and nations with great fear and suspicion. That is why free nations, with very few exceptions, maintain their autonomy and attempt not to become pulled into the complex and compromising nature of trade and commerce in the Greater Community.

Perhaps you can understand this from your own experience of being in the world, a world where commerce has compromised the integrity and the self-determination of weaker nations. We have seen the evidence of this in your transmissions, which are foolishly sent out into space for all to see.

We bring this example forward so that you may call upon your own experience and observations of the world because events in the Greater Community and the reality of the Greater Community itself represent the same kinds of forces, compromises and difficulties, but on a vastly larger scale with many more participants.

Here you cannot be like children, being reckless, wasting your resources, opposing one another, being inattentive to your boundaries to space, unaware of who is intervening in your world today and foolishly expecting grace and salvation from those who might visit you. These are actions that are not in your best interest, actions which are governed by wishful thinking and by foolish and uninformed expectations. Such an approach to life in the universe will lay you open to deception and manipulation beyond what you are accustomed to and for which you have not yet developed a sufficient set of counter measures.

Life in the universe is difficult because all advanced nations have outstripped their world’s ability to sustain them, thus forcing them to engage in commerce and to a great degree to become controlled by other nations under whose commercial agreements they must now be forced to submit.

Life in the universe is perilous for the unwary. And yet the Greater Community into which you are emerging is vast and magnificent, holding immense opportunities for learning and education and immense opportunities for self-discovery and for founding a world where greater unity must be established and can be established effectively.

There are races in the universe who are very advanced in this regard, far beyond anything that humanity has established here on Earth. But they do not engage in space exploration. They do not engage in resource acquisition or in trying to persuade or manipulate young and unaware races such as the human family, for that is not ethical and leads to unfortunate consequences.

The wise have learned many things over the eons of time in the universe, many things that humanity has not yet discovered or is only beginning to learn. The wise have learned that all nations require resources and must either build their own self-sufficiency and trade amongst very trusted partners or take the great and unfortunate risk of becoming involved in larger networks of trade and resource acquisition — larger networks which will always compromise their integrity and self-determination. For if you are dependent upon others for the very things you need, then they, even more than you, will determine the nature of the engagement and the terms by which such an engagement must be met.

In your own world, you have seen smaller nations fall under the over-arching persuasion of other nations — persuasion that was garnered without the use of force, persuasion that preyed upon the weakness and the divisions within these weaker nations, making them now dependent upon larger nations beyond their control and to which they are forced to submit.

There is much for you to learn regarding this, and you have many questions, of course. In these Briefings, we will attempt to answer some of your questions if they can be answered. Yet some questions must be answered by a Greater Power, the Greater Power of the Creator of all life, who has put Knowledge as a potential within each person and within intelligent life throughout the universe. But such potential has not been discovered yet by the human family to any great degree, and as you will discover, it remains beyond the reach and awareness of many in the Greater Community, especially those who wield great technological power, who have abandoned their early traditions of religion to serve the religion of power, commerce and technology.

It is true in the universe that the wise must remain hidden to remain wise, and that freedom is built on three fundamental realities: one, that a world’s peoples be united sufficiently to face the universe as one people; two, that such people must maintain and protect their self-sufficiency so as not to become bound and dependent upon foreign powers who do not share their values or their emphasis on freedom; and three, that such people must become extremely discreet regarding their activities and behavior, which will always fall under the scrutiny of those who wish to take advantage of these people or who fear the freedom that such people might possess.

Do not confuse the Ancient Home of God with the Greater Community. For the Greater Community is a physical reality, and everyone in it must struggle to survive and must face the reality of competition and all of its hazards. Yet each race has the promise to evolve and to become free and to become wise. This opportunity still remains everywhere, within all beings and all nations in the universe.


Here you must come not with hopeful expectations or with dread or fear, but with a greater sobriety and clarity of mind. Do not approach the Greater Community wanting things for yourself, hoping and believing that those whom you will encounter will provide these things for you. For this is unwise and will rob you of the discernment that you must have to see clearly and to be able to discern those opportunities that are beneficial from those that only appear to be beneficial. This is the wisdom one must utilize within one’s own world, for this is a universal truth.

Our task is to reveal the real nature of the Intervention that is occurring in the world today, to warn you and to prepare you for the realities of life in the universe, to give you a greater impetus for human unity and cooperation and to show you the great need for the cessation of conflict within your world. We do this because we value humanity as a race. But we also do this for our own self-preservation, for to have another free nation in this neighborhood of space is of great interest to us. We support it as an ideal for all races. Yet in our local region of space, it will help preserve our integrity, and it will help preserve our autonomy if such a race as yours can evolve into the Greater Community free of foreign domination and educated about the realities of life beyond your borders.

We will speak in these Briefings about this greater arena of life. We will give you the information that is needed even if it does not answer your desires for specific names, dates and places, which would be meaningless to you and which would not serve a useful purpose, for you cannot verify these things for yourself.

What you need is a greater perspective and a greater vision. What we will impart will not be strange and foreign to you. In many ways, it will be akin to what you yourself have seen within your world and what you are able to recognize through your awareness of nature and history.

Life in the universe has taken many different forms. Even though many races use technologies beyond your current capabilities, all must still face the rigors of life. All must still make the difficult choices between freedom and submission. And all must still deal with the need for resources and stability. It is a truth that all must face. No one through technology has gained exemption from the great requirements of life.

You who are just beginning your journey into the Greater Community must now undertake a greater education. This greater education will call upon your strengths, your awareness and whatever wisdom may reside within your heart and within the hearts of all who dwell within your world. For it is this wisdom you need now more than ever before.




3–2: The Requirements for Freedom in the Universe


There are three requirements that all nations must meet if they are to establish and maintain their freedom and self-determination in the Greater Community. This holds true both for nations living in highly populated regions of space, such as is the case of your world, and for nations that live in remote regions, even in uncharted territories where contact with other races can be very rare and very hazardous.

The world has been given to humanity as its world of origin, as its place of residence and as a splendid environment in which humanity could evolve and build its civilizations and learn the lessons of peace and cooperation, both by principle and by error.

Do not ever think that this world is owned by anyone else, that any other race in the universe has rights to this world or has any special privilege for visiting this world or can make any claims of ownership to this world or any claims of authorship for human evolution.

This is your planet of origin. It has been given to you by the Creator of the universe with the hope and the desire that you would prosper here and maintain this world as the precious resource that it is. It has been given so that it may sustain you through your difficult phases of development and so that it may sustain you as you emerge into a Greater Community of intelligent life, where such worlds of biological diversity are rare.

The three requirements are unity, self-sufficiency and extreme discretion. We shall give you more information on each of these so that you may understand more fully why they are so important and what they really mean and will require.


Unity in your world does not mean that everyone is the same, thinks the same or behaves in a similar manner. It can accommodate the diversity of cultures that the world now possesses. But there must be a unity of purpose, a common purpose to protect the resources of the world and to establish a boundary to space where all nations cooperate with one another, not only for their interests in their national security, but for the security of the entire world. This of course will require an unprecedented cooperation between your nations and governments. With a Greater Community education and awareness, this great accomplishment is possible.

You must turn your eyes to the heavens. You have no defense against life intruding from beyond. You do not have the skills to tell friend from foe or to recognize a competitor. You are obsessed with the needs of your nation and your difficulties with other nations.

You will also need this unity to face the declining resources of your world and the great and perilous consequences for the human family. This includes the environmental damage you have created in your world — the damage to your climate systems, to your water and to other life giving resources that have supplied and sustained humanity over its long and slow evolution.

Human unity now will not be the consequence of ideology but of necessity, for you will fail if you are divided facing the great change in your world, and you will fail in the face of the Greater Community if you cannot establish this unity of will and purpose. All free nations in the universe must establish this unity of will and purpose, particularly regarding their use of their home worlds and their awareness and approach to the Greater Community. This need, therefore, is universal.

Your evolution has always been towards greater unity and cooperation, but now it must enter a more mature phase. For no nation will prosper and remain free if other nations in your world fall under foreign persuasion — a persuasion that will encourage human conflict in order to weaken the earthly powers that you have and to weaken the strength of the human family, fracturing it and making it more susceptible to persuasion, to foreign manipulation and to the need for foreign technology.

Your unity must be a unity of purpose based upon a greater awareness of your vulnerability to space and the fundamental need to establish a sustainable use of your world and its vital but limited resources. Never think that you can go into the Greater Community and take whatever you want from it. For the Greater Community in which you live, and which you will face, is owned by others who are far more powerful than you. Your warlike nature and tendencies, then, must become arrested if you are to gain this unity of purpose and the will and the strength to withstand foreign intervention and persuasion.

Human unity here may only be forged under a great challenge, for there is too much division of purpose and intent within your world for nations to establish such an essential common ground. It will be necessity that will drive you to create this, if ever you will. It will be an undaunted and persistent need that will drive humanity to unite in its own defense — defense against internal collapse and defense against external intrusion.

Within your nations and your cultures, there must be this unity of purpose, or the great resources and talent of humanity will not be brought to bear to face its great environmental challenges and to face the difficulties of emerging into a Greater Community of life.

Humanity’s future in the universe will be largely determined not just by foreign persuasion or intrusion, but by your ability to create a sustainable use of the world. Here humanity will have to enter a more mature phase of its development. You will not be able to focus on growth and expansion, for your resources will constrain your expansion, and your growth and the universe will not allow you to reach out and take what you need from other worlds beyond this solar system.

Nations who are aware of your presence, who are not intervening in your world, will respect your sphere of influence if it is established within this solar system alone. But beyond that, any intrusions into space or into the territories or worlds governed or owned by others will be intensely resisted.

You have boundaries and constraints now, and these are new to your experience, for you have been growing and expanding for so very long. But there are limits to this. Your world will limit you, and the Greater Community will limit you.

Unknown to humanity is the reality that great empires in the universe are rare and tend to be very unstable, unable to supply and sustain themselves over long periods of time. They either collapse at their perimeters or, due to instability, at their core. It is smaller nations and networks of nations that have been able to establish long-term stability with one another through very strictly enforced rules of trade and commerce and through establishing a greater consensus for mutual well-being and stability.

Your notions of growth and expansion, therefore, will have to change. For you cannot plunder the Earth without bringing yourself to a devastated state, a state that can be easily taken over by others in the universe. While outright conquest of your world is not permitted in this region of space, other nations are free to intervene under two conditions: first, if the native peoples of your world appear to others to welcome intervention and to not resist it; and, second, if humanity were to fall into a truly deprived and declined state. Under the second set of circumstances, other nations would be free to come and take the world for themselves, using humanity as a resource for their own ends.

It is these two conditions that allow intervention in this region of space. It is because you live in a highly inhabited part of the universe that conquest is not allowed. For attempts at conquest create instability and conflict, and instability and conflict are resisted by networks of powerful nations who seek to maintain stability and security at all costs, even at the cost of their own freedom. It is entering a more stable and sustainable state that all worlds in the universe must seek to achieve at some point in their development.

Therefore, war in the universe as you imagine it is very, very rare. It may occur in uncharted regions where two opposing nations may fight over the spoils of a world or set of resources that they both value. But in highly developed parts of space, such conflicts are not permitted. Here resource exploration and exploitation must happen under certain conditions that do not generate war, conflict or instability between the resident nations of those regions.

In this sense, the Greater Community is a different environment than you are accustomed to. It has achieved a sustainable state, at least in your region of space regarding those nations that you will encounter. In uncharted regions, it can be much more unstable, and conflict can erupt dramatically. But eventually nations realize that war and conflict destroy resources, and resources are what they must acquire and preserve. So other means are sought to persuade one another, beyond the use of force. This is why the powers of persuasion and perception have been established to a very high degree throughout many regions of the universe. We know of few exceptions to this in very highly inhabited regions.

Once nations realize they cannot fight each other without mutual loss, they will enter into cooperative agreements, and they will maintain these agreements very strictly over long periods of time. These are the conditions that you will face in engaging with your local universe. That is why your recklessness, your aggressiveness and your use of force are looked upon with such disdain and concern by established nations in your region. Here you will not be allowed to exert such aggression beyond this solar system. This restraint between established nations serves to check aggression and to limit the spread of war and conflict. This has proven to be effective in the universe, and thus it is practiced.

Your unity here gives you strength and gives you respect in the eyes of others. Other nations will be far less likely to try to persuade you through inappropriate means or even through means that are allowed within the laws of this region if they have to face a united and discerning race of beings. If the human family can establish such unity of purpose and gain a greater education about life in the universe, which we are providing to you through these sets of Briefings, then any attempt at intervention or persuasion here will be far more difficult. But as it is at this moment, you have your backs to space. You are not paying attention. You are not looking. And those of you who are looking often look under the persuasion of your own desires and preferences, without the clarity of vision that is required.

In a more united state, you will preserve your resources and share them equitably because you will have realized that you must establish a state of stability and security. What other nations in the universe have established to maintain peace and equanimity is what humanity will have to establish within your own world. The choice here is fundamental. It is the greatest choice you will have to make, and it will have to be made repeatedly — to choose either war and conflict or agreement and cooperation.

Your declining resources will help you in this regard, for if any nation in your world seeks to remain aggressive and hostile, its resources can be denied to it by the rest of the world. This is what happens in the Greater Community should any nation become aggressive and hostile, seeking to dominate or overwhelm other nations, seeking conquest of territory or seeking to eliminate its competitors. Such a nation will have to face a united opposition by all others who are involved in their networks of trade. This has effectively eliminated a great deal of conflict in the universe.

It is necessity, then, that drives such cooperation. Yet humanity has not yet established such agreements, for it has not had to face what all advancing nations in the universe must face, and that is the depletion of their resources.

It is resource depletion that has the possibility of forging a greater union amongst your peoples. Yet resource depletion can also lead to competition, conflict and war. There are many nations that we know of and have heard of that have destroyed themselves at the doorstep of the Greater Community — struggling over who will have dominance, who will have wealth and who will have priority within their own worlds.

Unity for a race must be established sooner or later. It can be established through submission and domination or through consensus and wisdom. This too represents a fundamental choice. Unfortunately, most nations that we know of, and certainly most nations in this region of space, have chosen the former option, choosing the submission and domination of their peoples to establish a unity of purpose and to crush dissent. Free nations, which are so rare in the universe, have chosen consensus and wisdom as their overriding need and emphasis.

Humanity, in facing the decline of your resources and the spoiling of your world, will have to make this decision as well as to what kind of unity it will establish. If you do not establish unity, you will simply destroy the remaining resources and greatly limit humanity’s ability to live in this world.

Other races do not want to see this occur, and so part of their emphasis on intervention is to prevent the destruction of the natural environment, which they hold to be far more valuable than the human presence here. Yet you must understand that those races who are competing for access to this world do not want to destroy the human family, for they need you as their liaisons to work in this world. They are unable to live within this world, unable to live in its environment, unable to face the biological hazard of its countless organisms. Races that have evolved in sterile environments cannot live in worlds such as yours without immense hazard and without the great risk of contaminating not only themselves, but also their home worlds with foreign biological agents, to which they have no immunity and which their medicines have not yet evolved to counteract.

Therefore, humanity is valuable to intervening races — valuable as a workforce, valuable as those who can work in the world for the benefit of foreign powers. But this benefit will not be yours, and should you lose your freedom to foreign intervention and persuasion, the life it would create for you would be truly tragic and unfortunate.

In the Greater Community, all advancing nations have faced the problem of resource depletion. As a result, resource acquisition and the stability and sustainability of resource acquisition have become the overriding emphasis. Nations that have advanced technology that requires resources from foreign places become extremely dependent upon maintaining access to these resources and to establishing peaceful and diplomatic relations with those who supply them.

Here advanced technology makes you even more vulnerable to foreign persuasion and control. If you need rare elements that can only be found in remote regions or which are only possessed by certain races, then you must accommodate their needs, demands and preferences in order to be privileged to receive such resources. The competition for these resources would be intense. This makes any nation that has such needs vulnerable and at great risk of instability and even collapse. If the technology and structure of society are dependent upon foreign manufacture and foreign resources, then it is vulnerable.

It is this vulnerability that humanity must seek to avoid. Do not be foolish in accepting gifts from those who are visiting your world. Do not be persuaded that you must have this foreign technology for your own benefit. If you do accept such things, you will become vulnerable. Unable now to provide for yourselves, you will have to meet the terms of those who have become your providers.

Here freedom and self-sufficiency become intertwined. If you are not self-sufficient, you will not be free. Even if you were able to gain from others access to those resources to which you have become accustomed and upon which you have built the infrastructure of your new society, you would lose your freedom. You would lose any leverage you have over how you will engage with others and what the terms of that engagement will be.

This represents an essential understanding that you must have in approaching the Greater Community. Do not accept trinkets from space, for you will undermine your freedom in the process. Nothing really important will be given to humanity in this regard by those who are intervening in your world. They are seeking to create dependency and addiction. This gives them power and leverage, even in their small numbers, over a much larger human family that is unsuspecting and that can be easily persuaded.

To introduce new sources of power into your world would make you dependent upon those who are here to take advantage of the world for their own purposes. Humanity has not gained the unity yet to use its technology for entirely beneficial purposes. You do not need more powerful weapons now. You do not need more destructive weapons. The use of weapons in space is so very limited. That is not how you will gain advantage or protection in the Greater Community. Learning this represents a more mature phase of humanity’s evolution. Here it will be persuasion and perception, freedom and a deeper Knowledge that will assure your well-being, not the use of force.

Nations in your region of space have security forces and can amass together a great military power, but this is only for the mutual defense of their trading networks. They have realized that they cannot overwhelm each other by force, and so they seek to influence each other through persuasion and thought. This represents a more mature use of power in the universe and a new threshold of learning for humanity.

Your reckless use of your world’s resources and your reliance upon technology to save you from its consequences represent two very foolish and damaging pursuits. You will have to sustain yourselves with what you have within this world if you are to remain free. Even your allies in the universe will not be able to sustain you from afar because they do not have these capabilities. They will not seduce you to become dependent upon their technology or their foreign governance because they represent free nations and not those who seek to take advantage and to exploit weaker nations, such as yours.

You must look at your world as your storehouse for food, water and energy and for all the things that you will need both now and in the future. If you exhaust these, you will decline, undoing all of the progress that you have made. Even your technological potential will not be able to be realized in the face of such great social disintegration. This would make you vulnerable to one of the great opportunities that others have over a weak and failed race, an opportunity that is permitted in the Greater Community. That opportunity is seen as rescuing a planet’s resources from the overexploitation of its native race, which is allowable given the ethics and the rules of engagement that exist in this part of the galaxy.

It is not humanity’s subjugation or ruin that we want to promote, but instead its strength, its unity and the fulfillment of its great potential in the universe. Yet certain things must be understood. Technology alone will not save you from resource depletion, and resource depletion will undo your technology. You must establish through time, consensus and cooperation a sustainable use of your world — maintaining its biological diversity, the quality of its atmosphere, the quality of its waters and the quality of its soils and its lands.

Adversity will help you to come to terms with this and to see its necessity. But adversity can also undo you, setting in motion forces of destruction that would be very difficult to stop.

Your allies in the universe have great concern over this. Given your transmissions into space, they have seen the potential here. They know the path that most races follow in the depletion of their world’s resources, the inevitable results of this depletion and the resulting loss of their sovereignty and control to other nations. This is the path that most nations have taken. The consequences are predictable and are largely the same.

At this moment, larger powers in the universe who are aware of you, view you as reckless and destructive. Though they themselves are not intervening in your world, they will allow other independent commercial forces to attempt to gain access here. Should that access be accomplished and fulfilled, and should the power of authority be shifted from the human family to others, then the larger powers will enter to take advantage of the situation.

Much depends on your understanding and perception and upon the self-sufficiency that you can establish and sustain in your world. If your peoples agree to live simply, to share resources and to limit your population through ethical means, then you will be able to establish a greater stability and self-sufficiency. Then the greater powers in your region will not look upon you with the same desire for intervention, but will have to respect you as a united people who cannot be conquered by the use of subtle forces.

Unity gives you strength, but also respect in the Greater Community. Though attempts to bring you into the trade networks will be ongoing and persuasive, intervention such as is occurring in the world today would not likely be attempted. Yet in your divided and conflicted state, such intervention is occurring and is progressing. It will seek to shift the authority of the world to foreign powers with human participation and support. It will seek to use the human family. It will seek to gain the great advantages this world offers in its vast biological resources through the use of human labor and cooperation.

It is known to us through your transmissions and through our own observation of your world that some people believe that other races could easily come and set up a colony in the world and establish themselves here using their advanced technology. But given the biological hazard that your world creates for those who are visiting, this is not easy to do and has never been successfully accomplished. In fact, your world has the power to infect and destroy entire races in your local universe, given the presence and the diversity of its biological agents. Other races have rendered their worlds barren, and in many cases, devoid of nearly all of the native life forms. They have little or no immunity from contamination.

Earth then can be viewed as both a great asset and as an immense source of contamination. It is viewed in both these ways by all races who are aware of your presence and who recognize the importance of your world and the condition of humanity.

The third requirement is the need for extreme discretion. To be a free race in a neighborhood of space filled with races that have no freedom and do not want to encourage freedom, you must become extremely discreet. You must establish yourself as a non-threatening presence to these worlds. You must not engage in trade with them to any significant degree. And you must not allow them to visit your world and to scrutinize your behavior.

The rules of engagement in this region of space will give you these rights if you can demonstrate a united intent and purpose in establishing and maintaining your boundaries to space. Powerful nations recognize other powerful nations. They are not persuaded by other kinds of inducements. To them, power is resources, and resources represent not only wealth but survival. For their advanced technology has made their survival now more difficult to sustain and their resources more difficult to acquire.

This is so very different from how the peoples of the world view such things. They think the world is there to be plundered, and once the world has been plundered, the universe is there to be plundered, and by that point, they believe they will have the technology to plunder it. But you cannot plunder the universe. Many have tried, and all have failed.

Your discretion then becomes critically important. You will have to learn how to communicate without broadcasting into space. Even the most secret involvements of your governments are broadcast into space in many situations and can be easily discerned by those who have gained knowledge of your language and your tendencies. For the world has been observed for a long time by all the powers in your vicinity.

Those who seek to gain advantage here have waited until you built an infrastructure that they can use, and now they are attempting to persuade you to give them the reins of power and to make you dependent upon their technology and the sources of their technology.

This approach takes time and patience, but this is how nations gain control over other nations. It has proven to be the most effective path towards expanding one’s influence and power, particularly in highly inhabited parts of the universe such as this.

You do not want to be open to the universe. You do not want to reveal your activities, your conflicts, your difficulties, your aspirations, your plans and your goals to those who observe you. Your allies understand this, for they have had to maintain great secrecy regarding their presence in the universe and their engagement with other nations. Only those nations that are free can associate with one another more freely, but even then, their engagement is limited and must be protected with great emphasis.

You know not of the great disadvantage you are creating for yourself in broadcasting your communications into space. It is the problem of living on the surface of your world, where everything can be observed. Many advanced nations in the universe have chosen to live underground for this purpose, and some have chosen to live underground out of necessity, for if your planet’s climate system is disrupted, surface living becomes difficult if not impossible. Living underground has many advantages. Discretion is one of them. But that is not your condition now, so you will have to find other ways to maintain discretion.

Your world is being watched. Your governments are being watched. Your conflicts are being watched. Your trade and commerce are being watched. Your tendencies are being watched, both by your allies and by those who would seek to exploit you.

In the future, should you gain a greater unity and should you be able to sustain the use of your world, the development of this discretion will become essential. For indiscretion is always exploited in nature. It always makes one vulnerable in nature, and the universe is a natural environment, fundamentally.

There are limits to technology. There are limits to travel. There are limits to what anyone can do with machines. You have not yet reached those limits, but they do exist. There are older races in your neighborhood who have reached those limits, and that is why they seek to use power in the mental environment and to develop this power both for their own defense and to take advantage of whatever opportunities may exist within their sphere of influence and within their local regions in space.

Ultimately, no one on the outside should know what is going on in your world, not even your allies or potential friends. They will respect this discretion. They will expect it, and they will understand it.

This will require a very different approach to how you live and to how you communicate. Certainly, broadcasting the way you do is entirely inappropriate. That is why your scientists who seek to listen to broadcasts in the universe will not hear very much because no advanced nation broadcasts in this way. Discreet information is sent. Discreet channels of communication are established and utilized heavily, but general broadcasting is not done for the very reasons that we are describing.

Therefore, the three requirements for freedom are all unmet by the human family at this time. You are not united and face the risk of greater division and conflict between your peoples and nations. You are rapidly destroying your self-sufficiency in your world. And you are hardly discreet, broadcasting your strengths and weaknesses to all who wish to view them.

These three areas then represent the primary focus for the advancement of humanity: the establishment of human unity and cooperation based upon necessity; the cessation of overuse of the world and the maintenance of its resources and all that that will require in terms of how people live and how people engage with one another in your world; and the development of discreet channels of communication — both through a deeper awareness and through technology.

These are the three great needs of humanity, not only for your own well-being and your future in this world, but also to give you the opportunity to build real freedom and unity in the Greater Community.  Any contribution that you can make as an individual and as part of the human family in this regard is vitally important in giving humanity a greater freedom and a greater promise for the future.




3–3: The Tools for the Intervention


We must speak on the Intervention that is occurring in your world in light of the three requirements for freedom. First, you must see that intervention is part of nature. It is bound to occur. It is destined to happen. Anyone who has power in the universe must face the risk of intervention, competition and intrusion. Anyone who has gained an advantage in any way — technological advantage or rare and valuable resources — will have to face the problem of intervention and competition in the universe. It is a universal problem, and that again is why the wise remain hidden. That again is why humanity must learn to be extremely discreet.

You are living in a world of tremendous natural diversity and biological resources. Those who are intervening in your world today are not interested in the resources that you hold most dear. They are interested in biological resources, particularly those resources that represent the building blocks of life — genetic agents, chlorophyll, blood and plasma. These are the things that are valuable and are greatly needed in a universe full of barren worlds. Some of this represents illegal trade, trade that is not allowed for ethical reasons, but trade that exists nonetheless.

Rare metals are also sought here — metals that you are aware of and metals that you are not aware of. These things must be mined with human assistance. Anything that a foreign race seeks to do in this world must have significant human assistance. This is because of the biological barrier that this world presents to the universe and to those races who have evolved in sterile environments, who are not adapted to be in biological, terrestrial environments such as this. Because worlds such as this are very rare, there are very few races in the universe who have this adaptation. That is why the native races must be cultivated and genetically aligned with the intervening races. It is a time-consuming process, but the results are believed to be worth it by those who are engaging in such activities.

The Intervention is of two kinds. There are resource explorers, which nearly always represent one race, operating with great freedom and impunity, which are clients of larger powers. Sometimes, they are clients of independent trading networks that are engaged in illegal trade. Those resource explorers who have been in your world and who are in your world today represent members of this group.

Then there are Collectives, who are multi-racial, hierarchical and very well organized. Their worker classes are bred for specific purposes, and they are involved in collective breeding, which is a practice not all advanced races are engaged in. The Collectives seek a more permanent residence in this world. They seek it as a world that either they or their clients could own and govern from afar, with human assistance. That is why such great care has been taken to study human psychology, human physiology and your reproductive process, as well as the biological hazards that exist on Earth. That is one of the reasons that plant samples have been taken and the world has been observed for such a very long time.

It is perhaps surprising for you to realize that an advanced technological race would have difficulty adapting to your world, believing that their science and medical technology would have overcome the difficulties involved here. But, alas, so great are these difficulties that there is no race who has evolved in sterile or near sterile environments that could easily withstand the biological agents that exist here. Even the illnesses of your animals could affect them. So great is this hazard that in recent history few races have attempted colonization of this world.

But now the Collectives see an advantage, for humanity has built networks that they can use — worldwide communications, worldwide resource extraction and a sufficient level of technology that can, at a basic level, interface with what they use and rely upon.

Humanity is also developing greater sources of destructive power, and should this power be fully cultivated, then interventions such as this kind would be more difficult to attempt.

Lastly, there is the deterioration of your natural environment, which is threatening many of the very resources that the Intervention seeks. That is why the Intervention has gone into its mature phase in the last half century, an accelerated phase involving four fundamental activities: the attempt to persuade certain individuals in positions of power in government, commerce and religion; to establish a physical presence and familiarity within the world itself; to influence religious views and tendencies, which also includes the promotion of human conflict; and the program of hybridization to establish adapted beings in a human form who are allegiant to the Intervention and who can assume greater governing powers here in the world. These four interrelated programs represent the activities of the Collectives.

Resource explorers operate in a more simple manner, by taking things they need from the world, as they are able to find them. But the Collectives have a more complex and long-range plan in establishing power and influence within this world. They recognize the strengths and weaknesses of the human family and your tendency towards conflict. They recognize that to gain human allegiance, which is their goal, they must present themselves as capable of assisting and even saving humanity from its own problems and from the great challenges that it now faces. The Intervention will present itself, therefore, in a more enlightened form — as spiritual agents, as those who have overcome war and conflict, who live in peace and who have achieved technology that humanity can now use and, indeed, now needs in order to rescue its environment and to bring a cessation of conflict in the world.

Yet this all represents deception, for the Collectives actually seek to increase human conflict, to weaken the strongest worldly powers and to gain allegiance through human failure — allegiance and a reliance upon their presence. Their interbreeding program is not only to establish individuals in positions of power, but also to condition and to program those that they take to become the Intervention’s representatives and apologists — those who will promote the Intervention and the peoples of the world having direct access to these intervening powers, bypassing their governments, bypassing human authority figures, in order to establish direct contact with those forces who are conditioning people to believe that the Intervention is here on their behalf.

It is a clever approach and well conceived, and so far it is progressing with very little human resistance. Even the governments of the world have been seduced in many ways. They have made contracts with the Intervention which the Intervention has violated, and now there are those within the governments of the world who are aware of the Intervention and who support it, and there are those who are aware of it and who oppose it. So the seeds of conflict and opposition have even been sown within the corridors of power within your nations’ governments, many of them.

The Intervention is being carried out by physical beings who are driven by the same needs that drive humanity — the need for resources, the need for power, the need for wealth and the need for strategic advantage. It is these very things that drive all nations in the universe. You must not regard these beings as evil or demonic or as angelic. They are beings driven by the same needs that drive humanity.

It is important now that we address the question of how the Intervention is functioning within the context of the three primary requirements that humanity must meet and must utilize in order to become a free race in the universe. The Intervention does not value freedom. It is unknown amongst its participants. It will, therefore, seek to oppose or undermine any progress that humanity will attempt to make regarding these three fundamental requirements.

Human unity will be opposed because a united human family will be very difficult to influence. Human conflict can be so easily antagonized, increased and directed. The Intervention does not want to see humanity unite in facing the Greater Community. Therefore, human conflict will be encouraged, particularly by those hybridized individuals who have assumed positions in advising human leaders. It is their advising roles that have the most influence here. These are not individuals that you will see, for they are not public. They are hidden and well placed.

However, they have their opponents within governments. For there is a struggle going on within the secret corridors of government, and that is why the Intervention has sought to influence commercial powers even more than government officials. For commercial powers are governed by greed. They seek wealth, power, predominance and advantage over their rivals. They do not have public scrutiny and are not accountable to people at large, and so they are much more likely candidates for the plan of the Intervention to gain human representatives and human liaisons.

Human unity will be opposed by the Intervention, for a united humanity will oppose intervention. It will become increasingly resistant to any attempt by any foreign power to gain access or advantage here. That is why the emphasis for the Intervention is to amplify human crises, human conflicts, human disagreements and to encourage the proliferation of weapons, to lead humanity further in its own self-determined path of destruction.

A weakened humanity will be vulnerable to persuasion, and a weakened humanity will be more likely to respond to offers of technology, to offers of assistance in governance and to offers of becoming connected to trade networks that already exist in the universe. If humanity declines, it will be hard for either your leaders or your peoples to turn down offers of technology and resources that will be provided for you — offers that will surely undermine your self-determination and make you dependent upon networks of trade, commerce and power over which you will have no influence or control.

These activities are not evil in the sense that you might think. They represent competition, and competition is part of nature. If you are to be powerful, others will compete with you. If you possess wealth, others will compete with you for this wealth. If you misuse the world, others will seek to take advantage of this for themselves. And if you remain divided, others will try to use that to their advantage.


Regarding resource depletion, the Intervention will support the overuse of those resources that you rely upon for your basic energy requirements, for they do not need these resources. The depletion of these resources will further hasten humanity’s conflicts and decline. Therefore, the overuse of such resources and people’s desire to maintain their current behavior will be encouraged.

A foreign agent here would need only encourage you to do what you have been doing all along — for practical reasons, to maintain wealth and power, to maintain your nation’s stability and to maintain its predominance over other nations. These agents will provide this advice to your leaders, and especially to the leaders in commerce, who always will seek profit and advantage.

Since the Intervention represents commercial forces, they are particularly focused on aligning themselves with human commercial forces in your world. Here they share a common purpose and many common methods, and they can appeal to individuals who have this focus and this intent. Who amongst the powerful and the elite in your commerce and trade within this world could refuse the offer of advanced technology and refuse the offer of proprietary rights to something that none of their rivals possesses? Who could refuse the opportunity to engage in trade and commerce with powerful forces beyond this world?

Leaders in commerce are not accountable to the public, to the people of your world. They are not scrutinized. Their positions are secure. They do not need to win public favor in order to proceed in their search for power. Who amongst them will refuse the offers of advanced technology and trade with other nations and the wealth, power and advantage that such engagements might promise?

Even your religious leaders will be encouraged to align themselves with the Intervention. They will be encouraged to believe that the Intervention represents advanced life forms, morally and ethically advanced, beyond anything that humanity has established, and that humanity must turn to them now for inspiration and for guidance. These religious leaders will be led to believe that the Intervention is here as an act of providence, an act of God, to safeguard humanity and to assure its future. It is their beliefs and their emphasis that will be exploited here, for they are not able to see clearly and discern the meaning and the reality of the Greater Community.

Amongst those who are rebellious and who seek to foster revolution, the Intervention will give them inspiration. It can whisper in their minds, it can present images in front of them — images of their saints, images of their gods, images of the righteousness of their cause. Those individuals who cannot distinguish a Greater Community presence from a spiritual manifestation will not be able to resist. Now they will feel they have divine will and support for their political goals. Now they will feel justified in taking any action, no matter how destructive, in order to fulfill their beliefs and their sense of justice.

None of these inspirations comes from a divine source, for the Creator of the universe would never support human conflict. But for a conflicted race of beings living in a beautiful world that is valued by others, this conflict represents a critical advantage to an intervening force. Here a much smaller force can overwhelm a much greater force.

The Collectives are a very small presence in the world, and yet they can have great advantage here, encouraging governments to take actions not in their best interests and encouraging conflicts that will only lead both sides to a greater decline and impoverishment. They can promote the use of the world’s resources in such a way that would only lead to humanity’s decline and the collapse of societies, and even civilization itself.

The Intervention is exploiting your weakness, and that is why you must cultivate your strength. You must see that your predispositions towards conflict and division are inherently self-destructive and render your position weak and vulnerable in the face of the Greater Community. Human unity and cooperation will be essential for humanity’s future if you are to remain and to grow as a free race of peoples in the universe. The Intervention will oppose this, for that will counter its goals and even its presence here in this world.

Regarding the issue of discretion, the Intervention wants to know everything about you — how to govern your views, how to motivate your feelings, how to stimulate your emotions, how to make you behave in the ways that it wants you to behave. For control of the human mind and perception is essential to its ultimate goals of governance in this world.

Human discretion, therefore, runs counter to the Intervention’s objectives and will be discouraged. Only in keeping the Intervention’s secrets will humanity’s discretion be supported — only in hiding its agenda and forgetting what individuals have been told and the often brutal experiments that they have been subjected to as they were taken from their homes and their families against their will. Here forgetfulness will be encouraged, even with threats of violence.

The Intervention does not want the human population to know its real activities and its real intent. It does not want to see humanity become more powerful. It does not want to see humanity gain insulation from the Greater Community. For the Intervention is here to establish dependence and cooperation. This is their pathway to success, a pathway that is not being sufficiently resisted within your own world.

The power of Knowledge is the sacred Intelligence placed within each individual. The power of Knowledge is unknown to the Intervention, for if it were known, there would be no Intervention, and such unethical behavior would not be attempted. The greater powers of humanity are not being used, and humanity is being encouraged to behave in ways that are not in its best interests.

While it is true that humanity could commit all of its errors on its own, to have the support of the Intervention only makes the hazards greater. This is being done in a completely hidden way. While the Intervention will present itself to its believers and its advocates as a benign and spiritual force, in reality it will be supporting the very forces that undermine humanity’s integrity, its unity and its self-confidence. The Intervention will undermine people’s belief and confidence in their leaders and their institutions, thus fostering a vacuum of confidence that can easily be shifted to a foreign power that is presenting itself as a benign and advanced race.

This is the nature of deception that is placed upon a weak and divided humanity — a deception generated by several competing groups of economic Collectives who seek to have advantage here. Such activities and deception have been used by humanity as well, so these are understandable to you. Technology only aids the Intervention in remaining hidden and in giving it certain powers over people’s physical response to their presence. But it is the power of persuasion in the mental environment, the power of making people think what the Intervention wants them to think, to feel what the Intervention wants them to feel and to do what the Intervention wants them to do that represents its greatest strength and advantage here.

The Intervention cannot use force, and it is not a military presence, so it does not have this capability. It will use its greatest strength, which is the power of persuasion, and it is using this to great effect. It has not won its objective yet. It has not achieved its goals yet. But every day the Intervention grows stronger. Every day its influence becomes more pervasive. Every day its effort to pacify human resistance and to direct human activity increases. For it seeks to pacify those who would resist it and to encourage human conflict at the same time.

The Intervention is here to encourage the loss of faith in human leadership and human institutions. It is here to strengthen its presence as the saviors of humanity. Whether the reins of power would be given to it publicly and visibly or whether it would occur behind the scenes, the Intervention needs tremendous human assistance and support. It must do this to satisfy those who are watching its presence here from afar, and it must do this to gain ascendancy in the world without destroying the world’s resources or endangering their ultimate goals here.


You have the power to resist this. You have the power to resist this and many other forms of intrusion that will be attempted in the future. Humanity does not know its own strength, and that is why it is so vulnerable. Humanity does not recognize its advantage in living in a highly populated region of space where military conquest is not allowed and where war and violence are rare. You do not realize the advantage this gives you. If you raise your voice against the Intervention, it is put at risk. If you oppose the Intervention, if enough people can do this, the Intervention must withdraw.

Other attempts will be made in the future, for the world is a prize, and humanity is part of the value of the world for those who seek to have it for themselves. This is the nature of life in the universe. The advancement of technology does not override these tendencies. It does not eliminate corruption and deception. It makes the acquisition of resources more urgent and more difficult to accomplish. And it makes worlds such as yours, which contain such a wealth of biological materials, amazingly valuable to other races who seek to use these things and have access to them for themselves.

Surely, you must know and understand that if you have power and wealth in the universe, there will be competition. Only if you believed that you were truly alone and isolated in space could you think otherwise. But you are not alone, and you are not isolated. Now that you have gained a certain degree of technological ability and have built a technology for others to use, the motivation for intervention will become stronger, and the attempt to gain human allegiance and to gain the reins of power will be invested in greatly.

Yet as we have said, humanity has the power to offset the Intervention, to build a boundary between itself and the universe and to establish its own rules of engagement regarding who may visit here and under what circumstances visitation may occur. You have not assumed this power, but it is there for you to assume, and assume it you must. It is this emphasis and humanity’s overall vulnerability that can create a sufficient motivation for human unity and cooperation to be established at a greater level.

Humanity must establish unity, self-sufficiency and discretion. It must learn how to do this over time, using whatever resources are at its disposal. If human unity is to provide freedom in the future, it must be a unity based upon consensus and awareness and a Greater Community understanding.


It is this awareness and understanding that we wish to support in these series of Briefings. We are not here to provide what people may want to hear out of curiosity or fascination, but instead to provide those things that are essential for your progress and for the defense of your world. For you do not know your vulnerability, and you do not know your strength. These must become known to you. If you do not know your vulnerability, you will not see the need for your strength. And if you do not realize your strength, your vulnerability can overtake you.

This is life in your world and life throughout the universe. This is what every race must face if it is to become strong and free. This is the responsibility that comes with power and wealth. You possess some power and a great deal of wealth in the resources of this world. Therefore, you must become responsible, and your people must be united in this cause. If they are kept in ignorance regarding the Greater Community, they will not understand the great need of humanity. And their focus and their activities will not support the establishment of human unity, self-sufficiency and discretion.




3–4: Hidden Powers


Humanity has a strength that it has not yet realized, a strength that can offset the Intervention, a strength that will give humanity a greater promise and a greater power in the universe. This is an unseen strength. It is a strength that once experienced becomes an essential force in directing one’s life and in providing one’s true power and security.

This power is called Knowledge in the universe. It is the power to see, to know and to act with clarity and certainty. It is a power that is beyond persuasion and manipulation from any foreign source or from any other source. It is a power that is given as a potential to each individual within the human family and beyond.

In the Greater Community, religion ultimately becomes the study and application of The Way of Knowledge, for this is what is most translatable in religion. Local customs, local teachers, local history does not translate from one world to another. Only that which is essential in the study and the practice of the awareness of the Creator and the Creator’s great endowment of Knowledge to the individual is translatable.

Only in worlds where individual freedom is valued and supported is Knowledge a true emphasis and a true goal, not only for the individual but for the nation at large. That is why Knowledge is feared and avoided in nations where there is no individual freedom because the power of Knowledge can stimulate individual creativity, individual dissent and individual differentiation from the will and the direction of the group. It is this freedom and creativity that give your life its dynamic qualities, its power and its potency. This enables an individual to fulfill their destiny in the world.

The cultivation of Knowledge is rare in the universe because freedom is rare in the universe. The Way of Knowledge is studied in secret in many worlds and nations where freedom is discouraged or is not allowed. It is most potently expressed in free nations, where it is seen as not only the avenue to personal fulfillment and contribution, but also as a source of power in the mental environment — a power that can be used to protect a free race from foreign intrusion and intervention.


Humanity does not yet realize how much strength it truly has and the advantages that you have because your religions have been maintained and have not been replaced by a belief in technology. They have not been completely subjugated to the political agendas of ruling nations. Though there has been much corruption, we understand, the power and the presence of Knowledge in humanity remains strong, and its potential for the future is greatly encouraging.

If this Knowledge were not present and were not accessible to human beings, then our message of warning, encouragement and hope would be of no purpose. We are speaking to this Knowledge within you and within all human hearts. It is not ideas that we are presenting as much as the recognition of reality and the preparation that humanity must undergo to prepare for its future in the Greater Community. For your destiny is there, and your success and your failure will occur within the context of the Greater Community.

Knowledge represents a deeper voice. It is how the Creator will speak to you — to guide you, to protect you and to prepare you. It is completely free from interference, persuasion and manipulation. It represents the core of your strength and your most powerful asset. Any action you may take to preserve humanity’s freedom would in the end prove to be unsuccessful if Knowledge did not accompany it.

This is one of the reasons again why the wise remain hidden, for they have the power and the presence of Knowledge. The Intervention does not know of this Knowledge and does not use it, and therefore it represents your greatest strength. But the awareness of Knowledge must be cultivated. The need for Knowledge must be recognized, for your individual intellect cannot compete with the power of the group mind that exists in the Greater Community. Yet Knowledge within you is immune from its influence and can see through its deceptions.

The strength of your ideas and beliefs is weak compared to those that are held firmly by many minds in the Greater Community. But the power of Knowledge is stronger. It cannot be turned. It cannot be betrayed. It cannot be altered by any power in the universe. Only the Creator of all life can speak to it, and only to this does it listen.

Knowledge within you is united with Knowledge within others. So as Knowledge becomes stronger in the human family, war and conflict will lose their appeal and attraction. As Knowledge becomes stronger in the human family, offers of foreign technology and foreign governance will lose their appeal. To Knowledge, they will mean nothing. All those things that influence people to harm themselves, or to engage in activities that are not in their best interests, will lose their appeal in the face of Knowledge, this deeper power.

Not all human beings need to find this power, but many do. Otherwise, the Intervention will go unimpeded. The governments will hide what they know, struggling within themselves in how to deal with this presence and its intentions, and the people of the world will remain self-obsessed and ignorant, unaware of the greater threat to their future and their freedom.

If enough people can become strong with Knowledge and learn about the Greater Community, then humanity will not succumb. It will resist the Intervention. And its resistance will demonstrate to the governors of trade and commerce that humanity is a self-determined race and does not will to be interfered with and controlled by foreign powers. This will give you strength and respect, which at this moment you do not have.

The greatest gift that any other races can give you is their wisdom about life in the universe and their awareness of the power of Knowledge. It is this non-technological power that will make all the difference in which path you take — whether you will choose conflict and war within your world or cooperation and unity, whether you will prepare for the Greater Community by recognizing the presence of the Intervention and its threat or whether you will ignore them to focus on other things that you think to be important. And it is people’s awareness of this inner power that will determine what path humanity will take in establishing human unity — whether that be a path of oppression and submission or a path of consensus and awareness. It will determine what people see, what they know and what they do.

This is how central Knowledge is to your experience, and this is why it represents the greatest power in the universe. Those who are strong with Knowledge have power in the mental environment. They cannot be seduced, and they cannot be induced by any force. They will value freedom, they will value strength, they will value unity and they will value purpose. Humanity does value these things, but not sufficiently regarding your emergence into the Greater Community and not sufficiently regarding the declining condition of your world.

We know this because intervention has occurred in many places, even within our own worlds, where we had to fight and struggle to regain our freedom and to expel those forces that were attempting to guide us and to control us. Our histories are difficult and not without regret. Many of our kind were lost in the struggle for freedom because we did not pay heed to the warning in time and then had to face the very difficult task of overthrowing those who had established themselves as powers within our own respective worlds.

That is why the Creator of all life has sent us to speak for the allies of humanity — to advise humanity, to warn humanity and to encourage humanity to recognize its great opportunities and the great dangers that lie ahead, to prepare accordingly and to seek the deeper power of Knowledge, which will provide for you the inspiration, the courage and the will to undertake the difficult change that must be established within the world.

Humanity does not know of its strength, and the Intervention is leading it only to believe in its weakness. The Intervention wants humanity to feel weak and helpless, discouraged and despondent. This is the perfect environment in which the Intervention can establish itself — establish its power, build its support and gain its advantage in a foreign world.

This is why you must consider these things we speak of before you come to any conclusions about the potential for humanity in its own world and beyond its world. Great care and skill must be brought to your encounters with intelligent life from beyond the world. The need for transparency and accountability regarding any visitation is very great. Here you must have certainty and not only hope.

Knowledge provides certainty. Without Knowledge, you may have hope, but without certainty, hope is weak and can easily be discouraged. Certainty will tell you what you must do. It will inform you of what is required of you as an individual and what is required of your nations. We have provided the three requirements to build and establish freedom in the Greater Community. These can serve as contexts for important human development. But these developments must be inspired by Knowledge. Otherwise, the desire for unity can lead to oppression. The desire for discernment can lead to secrecy, if not guided by Knowledge.

The Intervention must be opposed. Its presence must be denounced. Its activities must be exposed. People must refuse to believe in foreign powers who are here without human permission, acting against human will and awareness. Disclosure to people from their governments is important, but people also must disclose what they see and what they themselves have experienced regarding the presence of the Intervention.

Humanity must build its boundary to space. It must give its eyes and attention to space. You cannot have your back to the universe if you are going to be able to see what is coming and see what is already here.


The taking of people against their will must be exposed and denounced. It is for an insidious purpose. It can only weaken and divide the human family even further. You must recognize that competition now exists — competition from beyond the world. This competition must be recognized and must be exposed. Those who have believed that this presence is here for humanity’s good must see that this is not the case, that they have been deceived and that those who have been taken against their will believe in things that they were encouraged to believe.

You are the native peoples of this world. You are experiencing intervention. The history of your world teaches you what intervention is like, and that it is always carried out in the interest of those who are intervening. Do not let yourself then fall under foreign persuasion and intervention. Understand that your true friends and allies would never intervene in the world in this way or carry on such activities, which only threaten the well-being of people and undermine humanity’s unity, self-sufficiency and discretion.

To be able to discern friend from foe in the universe, you must know the difference between your strength and your weakness, for your foe will speak to your weakness, and your friend will speak to your strength. Everything that humanity values is now at risk — all that you have created, all of your advancements, all that you have accomplished which is significant. You do not realize the gifts that have been given here and how important they are.

You will encounter races in the universe within whose populations compassion is not shown towards one another. Their people have become more like machines — governed, controlled and directed, with very little thought or feeling for themselves or for one another. This is common. This is one of the directions a race can take to establish stability and security. It is not the direction your allies have taken. They have charted a very different course for their peoples and for their future.

Do not think that humanity’s future is hopeless because to think this is to fall prey to the persuasion that has been cast upon the human family. For the Intervention seeks either to win your favor or to defeat your opposition. If they cannot win your favor, they will seek to discourage you and leave you hopeless and in despair.

Faith in humanity, faith in the power of good human leadership, faith in the necessity and the requirement of human unity, self-sufficiency and discretion — you must never lose this faith. No matter what things appear to be, you must never give up. The Intervention wants you to give up, to give in and to give over. But you must never do these things in the Greater Community. For once your freedom is lost, it is extremely difficult to reclaim, as we ourselves have experienced so powerfully.

It is going to take tremendous courage to do what must be done in the world — tremendous human innovation, human commitment and cooperation. If you do not believe this is possible, then the Intervention has already won. Then it is only a matter of time. You have succumbed without even realizing the influence that has been cast upon you.

Freedom and unity are difficult to achieve, and they must be driven by a great necessity. It is not merely by chance that a nation would become free in the universe. It is by necessity and by choice. If you are not free in the universe, you will be governed by others. If you do not achieve and support your freedom, then you will not control your destiny. This is the reality of life in the universe. It is a reality that can either redeem you or defeat you, depending upon how you respond to it.

Many have failed in the Greater Community for these very reasons. Emerging races such as your own, unable to establish their freedom or having lost their self-sufficiency, find themselves under the persuasion of foreign powers — overtaken often without any acts of overt violence, overtaken as a result of their own conflicts, overtaken by their own deprivation. All advancing nations face resource depletion. It is what they choose to do in the face of this that makes all the difference. Knowledge within the individual will guide them to make the right decision. But if Knowledge is unknown or is not being experienced, then other decisions will be made.

Humanity has great power, but it is not using its great power. It has great potential, but it is not realizing its potential. Individuals and nations still seek to gain as much as they can from their environment, without any thought of tomorrow and what tomorrow will bring. Nations are opposing each other and groups are opposing each other, without any awareness that they both face domination in the Greater Community.

Here the Greater Community can be seen either as a great threat, a threat that people will deny or avoid, or a great challenge that can unite humanity on its own behalf, using its own power and skill. Here humanity will gain its strength through necessity — the strength of responding to a changing environment and to a changing set of circumstances.




3–5: Many Voices in the Universe


There are many voices now that will speak to humanity, voices from the Greater Community. Their messages will be delivered to individuals to be given to the world. Many of these messages will be the same or very similar — encouraging Contact, encouraging trust, encouraging compliance and discouraging resistance, discouraging doubt, discouraging further inquiry and discouraging the asking of questions.

Humanity has only one set of true Allies in this neighborhood of space in which your world exists. We have been sent to represent them. There are other mentors farther away who will send a message to humanity encouraging human freedom, human unity and human sovereignty. But amongst those who live in your vicinity, we represent those free nations that are closest to humanity and have the most to hope for and to fear, depending on the decisions that humanity will make for itself.

The consequences will be great for us. For free nations are rare and have had to earn their freedom. They have had to mature and become strong and united to ward off the many influences that the Greater Community will inevitably bring to them.

You do not yet know what a great requirement this is. Perhaps you do not yet have the confidence that humanity can achieve such a significant goal — a goal that far exceeds anything that humanity has established for itself thus far.

The Intervention is eroding human confidence, encouraging humanity’s dependence on foreign powers for its technology, for its guidance and for its governance, while your true allies will only provide wisdom and point the direction towards Knowledge.


There are many voices. If your life is based upon wishful thinking and hope alone, you will choose those voices that tell you what you wish to hear and that amplify and justify your hope. If your approach to life is based on fear, you will listen to those voices that tell you that you have no power in the universe and that it is useless to resist.

These are two forms of persuasion leading to the same end. But the path of freedom for humanity has to set a higher goal and one more difficult to achieve. For acquiescence is easy. Submission appears to be easy. Receiving gifts, and with them governance, appears to be easy. Many people want what is easy, even if it is not what is right.

This issue of faith and determination is crucially important for humanity, for your allies are not going to come and rescue you by force. We have spent a very long time securing our position in the Greater Community, building up our insulation and our anonymity, maintaining our connections with one another, building our strength and our discernment, our unity and our self-sufficiency. We would not threaten all of this to rescue a weak and divided race, regardless of its great talents and potential.

It is humanity that must gain this strength, this faith and this determination. If it does not do this now, it will not do this in the future. The power of Knowledge within you will guide you and lead you to do this as an individual and as part of a greater effort.

Securing stability and freedom in your world represent the two great activities for the human family now. This means creating stability in facing the great change that is happening in your environment and establishing unity based upon consensus and awareness rather than by forced submission. You must aim towards this and not settle for a compromise with any foreign power.

One of the reasons that free nations are rare is that the goal requires great strength, faith and determination. It is easy to align yourself with other powers. It is easy to receive their offerings. It is easy to hand over the reins of authority to others, hoping and believing that they are benign in their intentions.

Many choose this path. Many are led to choose this path. Some are led easily. With others it is more difficult. But humanity will have to be fiercely independent if it is to remain free within a Greater Community of intelligent life, where the expressions of power and influence are very strong and are very constant. It is the strength of being a person who is strong within their own culture, facing so many influences that would compromise that person. We can speak of this, for it is a universal problem.

A free nation will want strong individuals. A nation that is not free will want compliant individuals.

A free nation will support individual creativity and contribution. A nation that is not free will direct each person according to the design that has been given to them.

A free nation will support the discovery and the experience of Knowledge. A nation that is not free will never mention it, if it is aware of it at all.

A free nation will seek to remain isolated in the universe and to support its self-sufficiency. A nation that is not free will seek whatever wealth and power it can gain from others and thus become intertwined with the intentions and the compromises wrought with other nations.

A free nation will not attempt to gain access to other worlds to exploit their resources and to gain control over their inhabitants. A nation that is not free will do this within the boundaries of what is allowed within their region of space.

If a nation that is not free lives in an uncharted territory or in a sparsely inhabited part of the galaxy, they can use force to overtake another nation, for in that circumstance, there is nothing to oppose them unless they have a direct competitor.

Free nations will want to maintain a connection with each other for support and for the sharing of wisdom. Nations that are not free will become bound together for wealth and acquisition and to support each other in maintaining their compliant populations.

Free nations will seek to communicate deeply and openly with other free nations. Nations that are not free will seek to control and manipulate the perceptions and the responses of others.

Free nations will share their wisdom with emerging races such as your own. Nations that are not free will seek to take advantage of these emerging races. If these emerging races possess wealth or a world of strategic importance, they [Intervention] will seek dominance and control there.

The very wise in the universe, whom we have learned from in our own development over time, have told us that one should not seek technology beyond what is needed and required for unity, self-sufficiency and discretion. For if one seeks ever further power and advantage through technology, one will become exposed to other nations. One will compete with other nations. One will become intertwined with other nations.

There are many voices in the universe. There are many messages being delivered to the Earth. You must evaluate them based upon their content and upon your connection to Knowledge. You must want the truth above and beyond any other advantage, or your desires will blind you and your beliefs will lead you astray.

It is a difficult challenge to be the race that is discovered. It carries with it a great responsibility and a great danger. Humanity has no defense yet against such intrusions nor does it recognize the danger that exists at its borders. You are living and thinking as if you lived in isolation, without realizing that your isolation is over and that you will never have it again. You have reached a point in your development where other races will attempt to persuade you and influence you on an ongoing basis.

You possess wealth and yet, to your advantage, Knowledge has not been taken away from you. You have maintained your religious traditions. You have maintained awareness that you have a connection to a Divine Source beyond any worldly power. You value your conscience, still. Knowledge has been kept alive in the world for your benefit. Now you need it as never before.

Knowledge has told us to prepare these Briefings for the benefit of humanity. Knowledge has guided us to take great risks to ourselves to come into the proximity of your world to closely observe the Intervention that is occurring here. Now that our Briefings have become public, the Intervention is aware of our presence and has tried to find us. To avoid capture, we have left your region and are in a secure position far outside your solar system.

Our thoughts are private. Knowledge has taught us how to keep our thoughts private. And the Great Presence — whom we call the Teachers, whom you might think of as an Angelic Presence — has enabled these communications to Earth to take place, free of any technological interference or interception.

We have great assistance in this matter. And humanity has great assistance as well. But even the greatest assistance cannot be effective if humanity will not claim its own strength and exercise its own duties and responsibilities as the native peoples of this world. Great assistance cannot overcome ambivalence. It cannot overcome all the compromises you have made in your engagement with one another and in your use of your world.

We know what it is like to be discovered, and we are well suited to provide this wisdom to you, for we have undergone intervention, each of us in our own worlds. In several of our worlds, the Intervention took control and had to be overthrown violently, at great cost. Others amongst us were able to prevent the seizure of our nations and our assets.

We have learned, through error and through trial, the wisdom that we are presenting to you now. We too believed that we were the center of life in the universe and that any who would come to visit us would take great interest in us. Since we were self-centered, we believed and expected that the visitation would be centered upon us. But, alas, their presence was to gain access to resources, to gain allegiance, to establish our dependence on their technology and to intertwine us in their networks of trade and commerce, luring us with promises of wealth and power.

Each of our nations succumbed to certain degrees to this persuasion, for we were facing our own challenge of resource depletion in various stages. Of our seven nations, four were overtaken. The other three resisted this sufficiently to build the strength to resist intervention. We do not want to see humanity fall under the persuasion of foreign powers, for most races that do will never regain their freedom or sovereignty.

It is a critical time of decision in how you will live, how you will use and preserve your world and how you will engage and discern the Greater Community. The wisdom that we provide here can be very helpful to you in understanding what you are facing beyond the borders of your world. But we must call upon your strength. We must encourage you to mount this effort for yourselves, to educate your peoples and to undertake a Greater Community education. Your peoples are facing persuasion, inducement and pacification from their contact with those who are in your world today. The Intervention cares nothing for your cultures, and freedom is unknown to them. They only see it as the weakness of humanity, believing in the strength of their united effort.

You will not meet their leaders, for they are hidden. You will only encounter their servants and their human representatives. Already they have created crossbred individuals who are advisers in the corridors of power, particularly in the arena of commerce. They are planting seeds for a long-term effort, and humanity is aiding them in more ways than it knows by engaging in conflict between your nations and tribes, in competition and contention between your religious institutions and by overexploiting and overusing the resources of your world and not distributing them equitably, as any advanced nation must do.

You are aiding the Intervention in countless ways. They have but to plant their seeds, carry forth their agenda and allow time to bring humanity into their grasp. It is a plan well conceived, but it could not be achieved if humanity were well versed in the affairs of the Greater Community, recognized the danger in its midst and were determined to correct its activities and behaviors in the world.

This is why Briefings from your Allies have been sent and have been sent again. We must repeat our message continuously for it to be clearly understood, for we are competing with other messages that are being sent to the world, messages from the Intervention and messages from those nations that support the Intervention. We are communicating very different messages from one another, from very different sources, with a very different message, leading to a very different outcome.

If you believe or pray that another nation will come to save you, you will be saved by another nation that has helped lead you into your current and future state of decline. You will be playing into the plans that have been sown and laid for you. What nation would come to defend your world and to guide your leaders if they did not have the intention of establishing themselves there? No nation, no free nation, would risk its anonymity to do this or to put itself in direct opposition to nations that are not free, to risk war and the destruction of all that they have established to build their immunity, their discretion and their freedom from the Greater Community at large.

It is a fool’s trap. You do not yet see that those who would come to save you are but the competitors of those who seem to threaten you or even, in some cases, are working in concert with them. One will weaken you. The other will seem to rescue you. And all of this behavior will be done in compliance with what is allowed as long as humanity does not show significant resistance to the presence of foreign races. Like many general rules, there are many ways to get around it, many ways to use it and many ways to exploit it.

The regional powers that hold such sway in this region of space simply do not want war or outright conflict. They do not want their networks of trade to be disturbed. A few will take interest in the possibilities for your world, but most simply want to maintain the great networks that they have established and on which they are now dependent.

Your true friends in the Greater Community will not try to take over your world. Anyone who comes into your world and interferes with human affairs must attempt to control human awareness, perception and behavior to their own ends. Even if they believe they are doing this for your benefit, they must still seize control and exert their influence in ways that will undermine your future and your freedom.

The wise in the universe know these things. The unwise either do not know or choose not to listen. The fate of humanity will be determined in the next several decades by how humanity faces its own environmental crisis and how humanity chooses to deal with and to respond to the Intervention that is in the world today. It is a time of great choosing, a time of great risk.

We know this. We had chosen incorrectly and then correctly regarding our encounters with life in the universe. But we had others like us to advise us, for not only did we have allies in the universe, we had great friends beyond the visual range. Groups such as ours were sent to each of our worlds to advise us and to help us to prepare through Knowledge and wisdom. They did not take an active part in our liberation. They were only mentoring us towards our freedom and educating us as to what freedom would require and how it could be achieved.

Every individual in the universe who is intelligent has Knowledge within them. But in a highly controlled environment, the possibility of this Knowledge to be stimulated and to emerge becomes very, very small. We would consider life in these nations intolerable and extremely cruel. There you are just simply used as a resource to serve the existence and the survival of your group and the powers that lead you. There are even nations in your world today who are leaning in this direction. We have seen this and learned this through your communications, through your foolish broadcasting.

If you lose your resources, you will lose your freedom. Even without the Intervention, this would be the case. To keep civilization from collapsing, strict order would be imposed with no allowance for dissent or disagreement. This is why the destruction of your self-sufficiency has called both your allies and your competitors to your world. Your competitors see a great advantage. Your allies see a great need.

We do not need what your world has, but we do have a need to have another free nation in our midst — a nation that is not governed from afar, a nation that has established stability and security for its people, a nation that has grown in maturity and scope and that has become trustworthy and united.

We support this throughout the universe, and we greatly support it within our own region. That is why Knowledge has brought us in service to humanity. In the great tradition of life in the universe, those races that have achieved freedom and the collective awareness of Knowledge have a responsibility to provide Knowledge and wisdom to weaker races and to emerging races such as your own. Yet this provision must be undertaken without interference. That is one of the stipulations that is required. We can advise, but we cannot interfere if we are to pass this wisdom on to the peoples of the Earth, and if we are to empower the peoples of the Earth to become a strong and united race.

This great heritage in the transmission of wisdom has been underway since before anyone’s memory or awareness. It is part of the Plan of the Creator to share the achievements of one race with others. We assume this is happening everywhere in the universe, though we cannot tell for sure.

We were supported in re-establishing our freedom and independence, and now we are here to advise the human family as to what it must see, know and do to assure its freedom and independence. Thus, the tradition is maintained, and it continues onward.




3–6: Greater Community Realities


It is necessary now for us to correct certain assumptions that have been made in your world about life in the universe. These assumptions give you a very false impression of what is really happening in the worlds in your vicinity, how engagement between races is conducted and the freedom and the lack of freedom that exists in a highly inhabited part of the universe.

These are the constraints of living within a Greater Community, constraints that have benefits and limitations. The benefit for you is the relative peace that exists in this part of the galaxy, where nations are not attempting to conquer each other through the use of force, where outright violence is extremely rare and where you do not have to concern yourself with invading armies and armadas of ships approaching your world. You live in a very civilized and constrained region of space.

Nations behave because they are dependent upon one another. Having faced the depletion of their resources, they have, through persuasion and necessity, become dependent upon one another and therefore very much rely upon stable relations with one another. Yet resource explorers and economic Collectives still abound, engaged in trade both legal and illegal, undertaking activities that most worlds would not directly engage in.

Within this region of space, you will not be able to travel freely should you escape the limits of your solar system. Trade routes are established and are maintained for those races that use them. Some are extremely private. Some are very large and engage with systems far outside this region. Here you cannot go wherever you want, and travel is relatively slow.

Inter-dimensional travel has proven to be extremely dangerous. It has been the experience, in this part of the universe at least, that those who attempt it never return, for the portals are always moving and cannot be mapped or navigated reliably. Those who pass through them into another dimension find themselves either in someone else’s territory or in a reality in which they cannot survive. There is a reason there are boundaries between these dimensions.


You cannot go from one end of the galaxy to another. Indeed, no one has ever traveled the length of the galaxy that we are aware of. To leave one’s district is to leave the safety and security of one’s own sphere of influence. To travel outside this highly inhabited part of space is to enter areas that are dangerous and perhaps uncharted, where piracy is common and where you may enter another’s territory unknowingly, thus putting yourself at extreme risk.

Nations that live outside of well-established regions such as this maintain a very tight security, for they are very exposed to the uncertainties and the dangers that abound in the Greater Community. Free races engage with one another, but rarely travel in larger regions of space. Not being engaged in vast networks of commerce, they seek to remain hidden and thus secure.

There is long-range travel and trade, but only on established routes where security has been provided amongst member states, members in the organizations that run and oversee these routes of trade. If you are not part of such an association, you would not have access to these avenues of travel. Any attempt to travel outside of these avenues is considered very risky, for outside the routes of trade, there is the illegal trade, and here there is much danger to one’s security.

There is a reason why nations unite together for their defense — to establish their own networks of trade, to assure each other access to vital resources, to maintain stability in their regions and to counter any move at conquest or the expansion of an empire. Large empires are rare in the universe, as we have mentioned. They are inherently unstable and difficult to maintain.

Most nations represent one race, with variations of that race bred for certain purposes if collective breeding is undertaken by a world at all. Collective breeding has proven to be difficult with unforeseen consequences. The Collectives use it, but only for very specific tasks.

The environmental barriers are significant in space and are approached with extreme care and concern. Races in different worlds rarely visit each other freely. Only between free nations that have had long-standing contact with each other and understand one another’s environments thoroughly is this done with any laxity at all.

Very rarely will you find worlds where many different races co-exist, and certainly not amongst trading nations, where environmental or biological hazards can be introduced from outlying regions. As nations choose to live in higher states of technology, they become less and less adapted to natural environments, and the biological threshold therefore becomes extremely important and extremely hazardous.

Attempts have been made to establish colonies on Earth, but these colonies have all failed because of the biological hazard. The native races of your world were far too primitive to be considered important relations — important enough to establish major interbreeding activities. Attempts have been made to influence earlier cultures in your world, but the results have not been significant.

Those who are intervening in your world today do not represent races who have visited long ago, and thus have no right or claim to this planet or to any inherent association with the human family. Who you will be encountering are physical beings driven by physical needs. They are not demons. They are not angels. They will exploit you if they can, for you have not established yourself as a united race with any potency in the Greater Community yet, and until you do, others will seek to take advantage of the value of this world and your presence here.

There are great spiritual powers in the universe, but do not confuse them with those who are intervening in your world, or you will make a critical and perhaps fatal error in judgment.

Freedom is rare in the universe, that we are aware of. From what we have learned over many centuries, from engaging with races from afar and from receiving contacts from afar, the circumstances that we experience in these local regions of space are very similar in other areas as well.

Only in uncharted territories or in regions that are sparsely inhabited by technologically advanced races are the circumstances very different. These regions pose unique hazards. Even to a race that seeks to be insulated and isolated, they pose unique hazards.

That is why uncharted territories remain uncharted, for space exploration is only peripheral and is never carried very far. Ships require fuel. Fuel cannot be resupplied. Explorers enter regions where there are unknown forces. Explorers encounter environmental and logistical problems. Visiting terrestrial planets always has a biological hazard if they contain a large biological presence. Many groups have become sickened and have perished.

Travel in the universe is a very difficult and formidable task. Its distances are incredibly vast, and once you leave a known territory, you are on your own. If you do not have proper charting and maps, becoming lost is very easy, and finding your way back very difficult.

Nations use transmitters to communicate with distant travelers, but beyond a certain distance, it is impossible to locate a ship. This represents the limits of technology, limits that the human family has not reached. The human family dreams of unlimited power and abilities in the universe, thinking they can go wherever they want, do whatever they want and meet whomever they want. But, alas, the reality is so very different.

There is no race that is shepherding humanity as if you were the children and they were the parents. Yet you have potential allies whom you may engage with in the future, if ever you are to establish and maintain the three requirements for freedom that we have mentioned.

At this point, humanity is not ready for Contact, and that is one of the reasons why the Intervention is inappropriate and unethical. Humanity is unable to engage wisely with the Greater Community. It lacks the maturity, the unity, the strength and the discernment to be able to do this effectively. To engage with humanity under these circumstances is to take advantage of its weakness and its lack of wisdom and expertise. You cannot help a young race by interfering and trying to control its destiny, and no nation that is wise would try to attempt this. Those that do are here for their own purposes and are seeking the fulfillment of their own goals.

Humanity has built up layers of expectation, fantasy and belief that make it impossible for you to contemplate the reality of life beyond your borders or to see that the Greater Community is an expression of nature on a vast and incomprehensible scale. Here the laws of nature still continue and still limit the movements and the behavior of races. Technology cannot overcome this completely.

Many people may be disappointed by the universe that we are presenting, but this is the real universe that you will have to contend with, and you ignore the gifts of this vision at your own peril. The Greater Community is not a human universe governed by human values, human aspirations, human wishes or human history. Even the races close to you, relatively speaking, in this region of space are entirely different in appearance, in thought, in behavior, in the structure of their societies and civilization and in their emphasis. They would be incomprehensible to you, as you are incomprehensible to them.

Humanity is viewed by those few races who pay attention to this world as being chaotic, unruly and potentially dangerous. You are certainly not highly regarded for the way the Earth is being exploited and its wealth is being plundered.

You do not realize how valuable a tree is in the Greater Community, how valuable seeds are, the great need for fluids from plants and animals and the problem in securing biological resources and rare metals. That is why humanity is viewed as reckless and without wisdom.

Even though your competitors have no regard for you, your allies recognize the power of Knowledge that exists within the human family and its potential to guide you in the right direction and to prevent you from being easily seduced or to succumbing to your own weakness or to the persuasions of other races who would take advantage of your situation and your circumstances.

Your focus on war is entirely inappropriate in the Greater Community that you will encounter, where violence is extremely rare and is greatly suppressed. You will not be able to go out into the universe to exploit all the resources you have destroyed here on Earth without engaging yourself permanently in a complex network of trade and commerce, over which you will have little or no authority.

These are some of the corrections that must be made if humanity is to approach the Greater Community objectively, utilizing your awareness of nature, your awareness of your own history, the history of intervention in your world and what native peoples must do to establish their sovereignty and their self-determination amidst the presence of foreign and unanticipated powers.

Do not think that your subjugation represents your destiny. Do not believe that another race will come and govern you with wisdom and compassion. Do not think that gaining ever higher levels of technology will assure you any greater advantage in the Greater Community. Beyond the requirements of establishing your unity, your self-sufficiency and your discretion, technology becomes ever more hazardous. It begins to work against everything you have created for yourself.

Your greatest defense against exploitive powers in the universe is your unity, your self-sufficiency and your discretion. Certain levels of technology will have to be established to meet the needs of humanity in the future and to discern the presence of foreign visitors. But because you live in a well-inhabited region of space, you have certain advantages that prevent others from attempting to use force against you.

As races evolve, they begin to realize that force is destructive and that persuasion is far more beneficial, though perhaps more time consuming. This represents their strength and your weakness. But because Knowledge is alive within you, this weakness can be overcome.

The great opportunity for humanity is to finally achieve a state of unity, stability and security — security within and security without. Without this security, life is hazardous and continuously problematic and discordant.

You are entering a period now within your own world where stability and inner security will become ever more important, supplanting your emphasis on growth and expansion, requiring different kinds of behavior and a far greater degree of cooperation and assistance within the human family.


Adversity here is your ally if you can utilize it correctly. It is a decision not only for your leaders, but for your citizens as well. It is time for humanity to become mature, to enter into a more mature phase of its long history, to unite to establish a permanent and stable residence in this world and to establish boundaries and discernment regarding your interaction with other races.

If your emphasis on growth and expansion continues, you will move right into the Greater Community in the most vulnerable position you can imagine. We warn you against that.

Our presence here is a reminder that there are races in the universe who are free, who have earned their freedom and who have had to take great actions to restore their freedom whenever it has been threatened. The universe is a hazardous environment, but a maturing environment as well. You cannot be like adolescents functioning within this sophisticated environment.

These words represent part of our gift to humanity, a gift of wisdom — given without interference, given without manipulation, given without the effort to control or overtake human thought or behavior. It is a gift of incomparable value if you can receive it and apply it in your own world, in your own circumstances. The risks are immense. The requirements are great. You do not have a great deal of time to prepare for the Greater Community. Life is moving quickly. The Earth is being overwhelmed. You are destroying your life-giving resources at a very fast rate.

Therefore, you do not have much time, and we pray and trust that our guidance and counsel can be received as a gift of respect from our nations to yours, and that our intentions for you are clear and will not fall under suspicion. We have no design to engage with your world, for you are far from being ready for any real contact that would be beneficial to us. We do not seek what your world possesses, for we have attained self-sufficiency, which is perhaps the greatest achievement that any race can establish and maintain in the universe.

Perhaps in the future we may share more of how we have established our societies, but for right now there are greater matters at hand. You have greater issues to attend to. You must promote human unity. You must encourage the cessation of war for the reasons we have given for the security of the world and its position within a Greater Community of intelligent life.

Human unity, self-sufficiency and discretion are necessary if humanity is to gain freedom from constant intrusion and intervention from the Greater Community. Here humanity must establish its own rules of engagement regarding any visitation to this world and establish a boundary to space, over which humanity can preside. Humanity has been given by right and heritage dominance within this solar system as your natural sphere of influence, but beyond this you cannot extend yourself, nor should you, unless guided by Knowledge and wisdom.

These are recommendations and corrections. Heed them well, for they will serve you now. You cannot afford to indulge in fantasies and wishful thinking regarding the Greater Community in which you live. You must become strong and determined, and you must gain access to the deeper Knowledge that is within you, that is free from error and that cannot be persuaded by anything beyond the will and the power of the Creator of all life. It is this Knowledge that will resonate with our words and that will demonstrate to you our true intent and your great promise for the future.

There are many voices speaking to the world. Knowledge will tell you what to listen to, but your connection to Knowledge must be true, it must be deep and it must be strong. You were born to live in these times and to face these challenges, so the Creator of all life has endowed you with Knowledge that can lead you to do this correctly and effectively, both for the present and for the future.

Freedom is difficult to achieve and to maintain, but its reward is beyond estimation. Never forget this. Your freedom, our freedom and the possibility for freedom elsewhere represent the true expansion and evolution of life and the greatest promise and achievement for all who are living in this vast universe.




3–7: Questions & Answers


We are pleased to be able to respond to these questions, for we know they are important in giving you a greater understanding. You will need this understanding now, for the world is changing and your future and destiny is before you. It is our privilege to share this greater wisdom with you. We can only hope that it can be comprehended correctly and applied correctly, for such things can be misconstrued and grave error can arise from them. Let us begin now.

~

“How are you different from those forces who are intervening in the world today?”

We represent those free races in your region of space who still value individual freedom and who have stayed out of the larger networks of trade and commerce conducted by nations that, though powerful, do not honor individual freedom and do not recognize the power of Knowledge in the individual as a blessing and as a great resource.

We come here not to intervene but to share our wisdom and perspective that humanity will need now to proceed with greater certainty and greater strength and understanding in its engagement with life in the universe. You cannot give yourself this education. It cannot be taught in your universities or centers of learning. Therefore, it must be given to you by others who value your presence in the universe and do not want to see you fall under the persuasion and domination of foreign powers.

Therefore, our intent is entirely different from that of the Intervention. Our societies are entirely different. Our focus and our wisdom are entirely different. If you can understand that humanity must unite itself and gather its own strength and wisdom without foreign control, then you will understand why we are not intervening in the world, but instead only offering our wisdom, perspective and guidance for you to use or not to use, as you so choose.

~

“What does the Intervention want here on Earth?”

The Intervention seeks to control this world and the world’s peoples. It does this not only to meet its own goals of wealth and resource acquisition, but to serve larger powers who secretly will use the Intervention to gain control of the world. These larger powers would not dare to enter the world as the Intervention is doing now, but they will use these more unscrupulous forces to achieve their own goals of influence and acquisition.

The Intervention wants a compliant humanity. It does not want a rebellious humanity, for it could not manage that. The Intervention wants humanity to work agreeably — believing in its goals, principles and promises. These, of course, are false and deceiving, and it would be the gravest of errors if humanity were to follow these mandates.

Therefore, understand that you now have competition from the universe — competition for the value and the resources of this world, its strategic position and those things that are secretly hidden here beyond human awareness, which are of immense value to those races in the universe who are aware of them.

From this point forward, you will have to defend your world from intervention and from persuasion, which can be very powerful and very influential. These powers have been exerted in our worlds to the great detriment of our peoples, and we had to fight and struggle to regain our freedom and to ward off these influences and to keep them out of our districts. It is the price in the universe where freedom is rare.

Freedom requires vigilance. Freedom requires great care and great discernment. Humanity must develop these skills and these qualities if it is to survive in a diverse and influential universe, if it is to remain free and self-determined amidst the presence of other powerful forces.

~

“Are any of the visitors beneficial to humanity?”

No one who is visiting your world now or in recent times is beneficial to humanity. They all represent competing forces vying for power and influence here. They are all part of the Intervention, which is made up of more than one race. If you could understand your situation more thoroughly, then you would recognize that intervention in any form is detrimental to humanity and that such intervention is being carried out for self-interest to gain control and to gain domination.

No true ally of humanity would be in the world trying to manipulate human awareness, trying to control human behavior, trying to steer human destiny to its own ends.

Therefore, you are facing an unequivocal situation. You do not have the burden of trying to tell friend from foe amongst those who are intervening in the world. That would be very difficult for you to do, given the powers of persuasion that are being placed upon humanity at this time.

You have the benefit of facing a clear and unequivocal situation. Those who are visiting your world are here to manipulate and to deceive. They feel that their goals are correct and that they more than you could rule humanity beneficially. But that is according to their values, which does not esteem in any way individual freedom, nor does it value the greater qualities of the human nature and the achievements of humanity.

~

“Will anyone from space come to save humanity?”

No one will come to save humanity, and those who claim to be here for this purpose represent the Intervention itself. If humanity is ever to become strong and self-determined in the universe, it must save itself. What it needs from other races in the universe is the kind of wisdom and guidance we are providing through these sets of Briefings. This is what any other society in the universe who cares about humanity’s future and freedom could give in a world where a divided humanity is struggling with itself, despoiling its world and undermining the three basic achievements that are necessary for freedom: unity, self-sufficiency and discretion.

Do not think that others will come here to save humanity, for they will come here to save the world for themselves, and humanity will be but a resource they will use to achieve their own goals. Do not be foolish and naïve. Do not think that other races would expend the energy and invest themselves to such a great degree just to assure your freedom, for such an investment must be for their own purposes. This requires careful thought and consideration on your part, a very sober approach and a greater objectivity.

~

“If conquest is not allowed in this region of space, how can an Intervention occur and be successful?”

Conquest is not allowed in this region of space, so other means are sought through inducements, through the offering of gifts of technology and through persuading a native race that it alone cannot govern itself or assure its own future. It is these same persuasions that humanity places upon itself through its commercial and political persuasions.

Humanity has a greater destiny and a greater potential. Humanity can establish a sustainable use of this world. It can establish this security and stability, but it will have to proceed very differently than it is proceeding now. Otherwise, it will think that others will come to give it gifts, to uplift its science and technology, to show it how to live in peace.

But this is where you are vulnerable and fall easily under foreign persuasion. For such a peace does not exist amongst those who are intervening in the world. And there is no free energy in the universe that is truly free.

They will come to exploit you and to take advantage of your expectations and your naiveté. Therefore, you must be very wary here and very cautious. It is these powers of persuasion and powers of influence in the mental environment that will have such a great impact upon human thinking, human expectations and human emotions.

Here you either make yourself available to such persuasion, or you recognize you must resist it. Here humanity’s approach will make all the difference, for truly a small non-military force could gain ascendancy in the world without the use of force. It could do this through the power of persuasion and by offering the native people things that they think they want. This is how native peoples have been seduced throughout human history by other intervening powers. Now you are facing intervening forces from the universe, whose persuasion is much more sophisticated and much more powerful. If you are in their proximity, they can control your thinking, your feelings and your perception. This is the power they have of influence in the mental environment.

You can withstand this power because of the presence of Knowledge within yourself, the Knowledge that the Creator of all life has placed within you. For it cannot be persuaded. It cannot be deceived. And it cannot be corrupted. You will need to gain access to this greater Knowledge if you are to remain free and to develop wisdom and maturity in the Greater Community.

~

“What role, if any, do our governments play in assisting the activities of the Intervention?”

Some governments have assisted the Intervention, only to find it is working against them, and that it is deceptive and untrustworthy. Major governments in the world today have had contact in the past and have made certain agreements to allow the Intervention to function here in exchange for certain kinds of technology. But this has given license to a very dangerous intrusion into the human world and into human societies. Its influence is considerable and is directed to those individuals who are deemed to be the most compliant and the most easily persuaded.

But in recent times, there has been a shift to influence those in positions of leadership in commerce, for they are not accountable to the public. They are unelected and go largely unrecognized by the human population. They garner tremendous wealth, and they do not claim to have great scruples, such as your elected officials might proclaim. They can operate in secrecy, with very little accountability to anyone.

There has been a change, therefore, in the Intervention’s emphasis to move towards individuals in positions of leadership in commerce, particularly regarding resource acquisition and distribution. For these individuals hold great power in these arenas and are far more easily persuaded. Your people know not of what is occurring in your midst.

~

“Are any of the world’s governments resisting the Intervention?”

Yes, the United States and Russia are resisting the Intervention. That is one of the reasons they have ceased their competition that was so destructive over many decades. They are more cooperative now, for they realize they need one another to be successful in offsetting the impacts and the persuasion that is being cast upon humanity.

There are smaller governments assisting now, but primarily it is these two greater powers that hold such great military strength and persuasion in the world. It is they who had fallen under alien deception, and it is they who have now turned against the Intervention. That is why our contact on Earth, Marshall Vian Summers, can receive this information and can receive our Briefings and counsel without fear of government suppression.

He is being watched, we are sure, though we cannot tell to what extent. He is providing a service not only to the peoples of the world, but also to those governments who are aware of the Intervention and who are now opposing its presence and its activities in the world.

~

“Human scientists say that no one can travel faster than the speed of light. Therefore, how is it possible that the Intervention can come here or even that you could come here?”

This premise is certainly one that limits human understanding. If you could not travel faster than these speeds, you could not travel in space at all, and that perhaps is the assumption of many who still think that this is a barrier that cannot be surpassed.

Even before there were any human civilizations in the world, space travel was underway to a very large and sophisticated extent. You can travel faster than the speed of light and counteract its effect on time and aging, and this has been practiced far longer than any human civilization.

But travel is not as fast as you might think or imagine. It still takes time to travel between solar systems — sometimes, in your estimation and time frame, days and weeks or even months, depending on the distance one has to traverse. This, of course, would be astoundingly fast according to your notion, but you are still crawling along at a slow pace while other nations have been engaged in commerce, trade and travel for hundreds of thousands of your years, even in your region of space.

You do not live in some newly developed part of the universe. There has been a long history in this region, longer even than we can account for — a history of early war, conquest and conflict. This has been surpassed by a greater unity, a great network of trade and a great network of control — which has suppressed war and conflict, but which has also suppressed freedom and self-determination amongst its participating nations.

Therefore, you must consider that this barrier, called the speed of light, is something that humanity, in some distant future, will be able to overcome. Even on its own it will find a way to do this. But surely it cannot hold to such a limit as being defining. For we have come to be near the Earth, and now we are far away from the Earth, and the Intervention has come to intervene in the world, which it is doing now ever so greatly with each passing year. Trade and commerce is going on in many regions inside the galaxy, and we may only assume in other galaxies as well. So never think that technology in the universe is limited by human understanding or accomplishment.

~

“When will humanity be able to travel outside this solar system?”

Your travel outside this solar system may be possible within the next two centuries, but we say “may be possible” because you will have to face the great environmental change that is occurring in your world, which has the power to undermine human civilization. And you also have to face the consequences of intervention in your world, which could usurp human authority here and place humanity under foreign control and domination. Either of these two events could alter the course of human destiny thoroughly, could stifle and control humanity’s accomplishments and its destiny as a free and self-determined peoples in the universe.

Therefore, there are great dangers facing you now, and that is why our Briefings are so important and why we have been called by greater Spiritual Powers to come to the Earth to deliver our messages to a worthy world and a worthy people.

~

“You speak of individual freedom being rare in the universe. Why is this so?”

Freedom is difficult to cultivate. It can be unruly and disorganized. It can lead to dangerous individual assertions. It can have disastrous consequences if it is not governed wisely and conscientiously. It is far easier for nations to exert control and to establish authority over their peoples and societies. That is why most nations choose this easier and more expedient path, even though it leads to a far less productive and creative outcome.

Freedom is difficult to cultivate even on an individual level. It requires responsibility. It requires awareness. It requires wise governance and counsel. It requires a wise leadership and a willing and educated population. These things are all very challenging to establish, and that is why many nations choose the alternative route to stability.

We believe, however, that the path of individual freedom leads to a stronger nation and to greater creativity and accomplishments amongst its citizens for the benefit of all. We believe that repressive societies, though they may be common in the universe, do not have this creativity and cannot benefit from the wisdom and the greater purpose that each person carries. Thus, their achievements are limited, and they tend to copy one another, for they are not creative. New technology, new wisdom and new ways of creative social governance are not established in these nations. They are conservative, and they resist progressive thinking and progressive accomplishments.

Here humanity must see that it has one of two pathways to follow in establishing greater security and stability in the world. It will either create a repressive regime that will enforce order and stifle the creativity and freedom of individuals. Or it will choose the more difficult path of establishing a freer, more creative and more productive society.

It is our hope and wish that humanity will choose the path of freedom and build the freedom that it has already established in many parts of the world. It has, of course, a long way to go in doing this, and it is not an easy task. But now with the prospect of diminishing resources in the world and the presence of intervening, manipulative forces, humanity faces a great challenge in this regard.

You can never take your freedom for granted in the universe. Freedom is a privilege and not merely a right. It must be built with strength and wisdom, and it must be protected with vigilance, always.

~

“If you were caught by the Intervention, what would happen to you and would there be consequences for your own worlds?”

If we were to be caught by the intervening forces, we would be tortured and exposed to cruel punishment to extract from us any information that we might have. Our home worlds would be discerned, and great external pressure would be brought to bear upon the leaders of our nations regarding our presence and influence here in the world. For our worlds have established agreements of non-interference in regions outside of our own, and this is what gives us our autonomy, an autonomy that is always fragile and under scrutiny for the possibility of revision.

According to our agreements, we are not allowed to be in the vicinity of your world giving such counsel, even if we are not directly intervening. But we are nearby, and our purpose is noble and worthy and guided by a greater Source. So certainly we would be tortured and destroyed, those of us who are gathered for this purpose. And our worlds would come under greater scrutiny and tremendous pressure, and our contracts guaranteeing our autonomy would be threatened and challenged.

This would be grave for our leadership. Therefore, we act with the greatest secrecy. That is why we do not describe our appearance. That is why we do not give our names, describe our worlds or tell you where our worlds reside. It is of the utmost importance to us that these things remain secret. We have not even revealed them to our contact here on Earth. Nor would we do so. For any human mind can be interfered with, and its understanding can be extracted by those intervening forces in the world now.

Therefore, you must understand the importance of discretion. That is why it is one of the three requirements for establishing and maintaining freedom in the universe: unity, self-sufficiency and discretion. You are only at the beginning of learning about the power of the mental environment. You are only beginning to learn how other races can gain access to human wisdom and understanding. You are only beginning to realize how much your freedom will have to be guarded and protected if it is to be sustained in a universe where freedom is rare.

~

“The Briefings state that the Intervention is promoting human conflict. How does it do this? Can you give us an example of what you have seen so far?”

You have but to promote religious extremism and nationalism and to convince the leaders and persuasive individuals that other peoples represent their enemy and a threat. You have only to project the images of spiritual saints and emissaries proclaiming the need to overcome adversaries. This is how the Intervention can promote conflict in the world. The United States’ engagement and its war in the nation of Iraq is a very good example of leaders being persuaded to do something that is utterly foolish, to engage in an intractable conflict with no certain outcome, committing so much of its resources, even risking world opinion to engage in this manner. Other nations, particularly nations that are powerful and influential, will be engaged in this way through persuasion by the Intervention — to diminish their power, to diminish their influence, to diminish the morale of their own peoples and to diminish their economies. For the Intervention needs humanity to decline in order to present itself as truly beneficial to human destiny.

Therefore, the Intervention will seek to weaken the strongest powers to degrade their influence in the world and to create an overall situation where the Intervention will be deemed truly valuable, and its counsel and its guidance will be attended to and followed.

~

“You also indicate that the Intervention is pacifying people. How can it pacify people and yet promote human conflict?”

The Intervention is pacifying certain populations — the young people, the educated, those who are spiritually inclined, those who could not be encouraged to wage war or conflict against others. Those who could be the greatest emissaries for the Intervention will be pacified and directed. They will believe in the new leadership. They will believe that the Intervention is here to save a struggling and declining humanity.

Those who cannot be pacified can be encouraged to engage in their ancient animosities and their distrust of their neighbors, and to fortify their resistance and hostility towards their historic enemies. Lands can be contested. Resources will be contested increasingly. Even within nations, there will be groups who will arise, who will seek to destabilize and overtake those nations. Many groups will be governed by religious ideology, governed not only by the defaults of human nature, but also by the influence and guidance exerted by the Intervention itself.

~

“Is the Intervention manipulating food production or any other industries here on Earth?”

The Intervention does not need to manipulate food production, as it is declining as a result of humanity’s impact on your own environment. Other industries, such as the military industries — industries that supply and support military efforts and military adventures — these are certainly being encouraged. There are forces encouraging human conflict. This represents the impact of the Intervention. While there is an incentive for peace, there is also an incentive for conquest. That is why many nations are building their military capacity. At least they were when we were last in the vicinity of your world, and we must assume that this is continuing.

This is not only the result of human mistrust and human fear. It also represents the impact of the Intervention. The Intervention is not threatened by your weapons. Only nuclear power and nuclear weapons threaten its existence here. And these things cannot be used without great consequence to the welfare and to the future of humanity.

The Intervention is using power in the mental environment — the powers of persuasion, powers which humanity is only beginning to discern and to understand. Humanity still thinks that military power will determine its fate and its future, but in a universe of greater skill and greater influence, this will not prove to be effective. This represents a new threshold of learning and accomplishment for the human family.

~

“Can you reveal where the Intervention bases on Earth are so that we can shut them down?”

We do not have full knowledge of this. Certainly, the first bases were established in the oceans and shallow waters, away from the presence of human military forces — in the Arctic regions and in areas where there is no military establishment. Bases underground, which are far more difficult to establish, have been built in mountain regions. Transmitters have been established in mountain regions, which have cities at their base — transmitters to affect the mental environment and pacify the public. This represents one of the efforts of the Intervention.

We do not know where all of these transmitters have been placed, but we do know they are being used. We do not know where all the bases have been established, particularly on land. We were never near enough to the surface of the Earth to be able to witness these things ourselves and can only understand their existence by deciphering the transmissions of the Intervention. Yet it is enough for you to know that such bases exist here and that there is a significant alien presence in the world. It is not a military presence. It represents the skillful use of commercial forces by those who have gained power and influence in the mental environment.

You will have to change your understanding of the use of power to realize how strong an influence this is and how much more effective it is towards establishing your goals and priorities than the exertion of military power. The exertion of military power is restrained in your world, and it is greatly suppressed in this part of the galaxy.

~

“If the Intervention is overcome, what should humanity do with all the individuals who are a result of the hybridization program?”

If the Intervention can be overcome, you will face future interventions. But regarding the presence of such individuals, you will have to reincorporate them into the human society, and that will require a great investment of time and energy. These individuals will actually be able to be beneficial participants in society, but their understanding and the influences upon them will have to change remarkably.

Some could become wise seers. But it is their allegiance to humanity that will have to be fully established, and they will have to learn to shield themselves from the effects of the Intervention, which can influence them even if the Intervention is not present in the world. For in space, influence in the mental environment can accrue over vast distances. Once influence has been established, this can take place.

This will be a challenge. These individuals can become beneficial to humanity if their allegiance can be placed here and if persuasions upon them can be minimized or eliminated.

~

“Inter-dimensional travel seems to be the fastest way to get around in space. Why is it not being used?”

Inter-dimensional travel, though greatly promising, has proven to be disastrous, for you cannot control your reentry, and even if you could find one of the portals, which are constantly in motion, you would not be able to ascertain where you would emerge — into what kind of physical environment or physical condition you would find yourself. That is why so many craft that have attempted this transference have never returned.

The portals remain a mystery. Inter-dimensional travel remains a hypothesis. We know that certain races have been able to bridge the gulf between dimensions. They have been able to communicate from the other dimension, but they were not able to return, and contact with them was short lived, leading to an uncertain outcome.

Humanity hopes and believes that such things will be available to it so that it can travel anywhere it wants, to move across the galaxy in an instant, to emerge in any environment. But the reality of the Greater Community will change these notions, will temper your ambitions and will show you a very different reality than the one that you imagine for yourself.

Even if you could emerge through such travel, you would end up in the vicinity of foreign worlds with whom you do not have relations or in physical environments that are entirely hazardous. You would have no way of charting a corridor route there unless you had allies existing in that region. And such alliances would be very difficult to establish, for no race wants to be intruded upon by races from afar in this manner. This would be a challenge to their security and to their network of local trade. They would be greatly threatened by the appearance of a foreign race with whom they had no history or relations.

You have but to think of these things more carefully, more objectively, to see and to understand what we are conveying to you. This requires a serious consideration. Otherwise, you will continue to indulge in fantasies of high technology and instantaneous space travel. But you will have to face a very different reality as you emerge into a Greater Community of life.

~

“Many people here on Earth would love to travel to other worlds and meet other races there, yet you indicate that this would be very limited. Why is this the case?”

Most nations do not welcome visitation unless it is from those who are its longstanding trading partners, and even here visitation will be limited, for societies do not want to be influenced by other societies. Certainly any free nation would not be welcome to visit a nation that is not free.

Then there is the problem of biological contamination. We can think of no world where humanity would be welcome at all given the biological reality of your world and the tremendous threat it could impose upon a foreign world. They are not prepared to deal with the innumerable biological agents and influences that exist here, and to receive an emissary from Earth would be a very challenging prospect for them.

If they were not a free society, they would not be interested in your individual expressions. They would be threatened by your music and your art. They would not want these influences to be exerted upon their cultures. They would not want their own populations to witness you or to understand you, for in this, you would be a great threat to them and to all they have invested in establishing their highly controlled societies.

You would not be able to reach other nations because you would have to cross territories owned by others. You would have to use trade routes governed by trading authorities. You would have to make agreements and compromises. You would have to come to terms with many other powers just to travel freely in this region of space. If you traveled outside these established routes, you would always face the danger of piracy. You would also face the danger of becoming lost.

Even amongst our worlds, we would not welcome human visitation at this time, for you are not yet wise enough, united enough or discerning enough for us to establish active relations with you. That is why no one should be intervening in the world. No one should be attempting to establish relations with the human family, and those that do are here for their own purposes, to establish their own quest for power and domination.

You, who are naïve and do not understand the realities of life and travel in the universe, have yet to see these things clearly. But if you think carefully about this, you will understand. There are nations even within your own world that you could not visit freely at this moment because they are not free, because they would not welcome your influence and your presence in their midst. Though such nations are few, their examples serve to illustrate what we are saying.

The universe is far more diverse, and its societies are far more different from one another than anything you have established here on Earth. Races are far more different from each other. And trust in relations can take a very long time to establish and is always maintained with great scrutiny and care. This represents the reality that you will face as you emerge into this larger arena of life.

~

“It appears very likely that we will run out of at least some of our essential resources in the near future. How can human civilization continue if we do not receive technology and assistance from our neighbors in space?”

If you seek to gain technology and assistance, you will be drawn into the persuasions, requirements and the commercial trade networks of other nations. They will limit your freedom. They will limit what you can do here on Earth. They will influence the kind of societies you will create in the future and will greatly limit the freedom allowed your citizens. You would give up so much for this technology and assistance. You do not yet realize what a great loss this would be and how much humanity would lose in the exchange.

You have enough here on Earth if humanity will govern itself wisely and if nations will cooperate sufficiently to preserve the resources of the world and to use them in a sustainable manner. You will need to build new technology, but even more than technology, you will need the will and the cooperation to do this.

Over time, humanity will have to find beneficial and humane ways of limiting its population and limiting its consumption. It would be a very different world than the world you live in today, which is based upon the desire and the expectation of endless growth and expansion.

To be self-sufficient is one of the requirements for freedom. For humanity to be self-sufficient in this world would require a very different creation of society and a very different set of priorities for your leaders and your citizens.

What will bring about this great change but necessity itself? You are facing great change in the world — great environmental change, great change that all advancing technological societies have had to face or will have to face inevitably in their evolution. It is how you recognize and prepare for this, how you respond to this and what kind of society you build, whether it be free or repressive, that will determine the future of human existence in this world.

~

“Are there many worlds such as ours in space?”

There are many worlds that have been stripped of their natural resources and have become barren as a result. Certainly, terrestrial worlds such as yours are rare, maybe one out of five or six thousand planets contain the biological diversity that you enjoy and take for granted here in your world. That still accounts for many planets in the universe. But such planets are always occupied, are always valued and the native races always have to defend their rights, their privileges and their stewardship as they begin to emerge into the Greater Community.

Terrestrial planets create biological hazards for visitors. And that is why colonization is usually attempted once the native race has either established a usable network that the visitors can use, such as is the case here on Earth, or have destroyed themselves through conflict and war, leaving an open door for intervention to occur, even military intervention. Military intervention is allowed in this region of space under such conditions. This represents part of the ethics of contact that are assumed and are practiced by many nations in this part of the Greater Community.

~

“Many people conclude that the visitors are beneficial because they haven’t already attacked us and taken over. What would you say to this?”

The Intervention is not here to attack humanity but to persuade humanity. The Intervention needs a compliant humanity to work for it and to engage with it to become part of its Collective. This assumption that humanity would be attacked and overtaken is entirely wrong. It is how you view gaining access to new lands and new resources.

But even in your modern world, economic, more than military, forces are used to gain acquisition to resources, and this is what is happening to the world regarding its relations in space. You are encountering small, economic Collectives who are here to begin the process of acquisition that larger nations can assume later on, if the Intervention is successful in establishing its presence and its power in your world.

To think that you would be attacked is wrong, and to think that because you have not been attacked that the forces that are here are beneficial is wrong. Both are based upon false assumptions. Therefore, the conclusions are incorrect.

Humanity, living so long in isolation and being so warlike yourselves, is certainly likely to make such assumptions and to continue to believe in them and to uphold them. It is human ignorance that gives rise to such things, and human arrogance as well. For you may be preeminent in your own world, but you have no preeminence in the Greater Community, and you are not looked upon favorably by your nearest neighbors because of your warlike tendencies and destructive use of your environment.

Those neighbors who are not free will look upon the freedoms that you have cultivated thus far with great anxiety and with great concern, not wanting these influences to be exerted within their own worlds. You have no idea what your music and your dance could evoke in such worlds and why they are viewed as a threat to those controlling powers that dominate them.

~

“How do free races maintain their autonomy and keep races that are not free from interfering?”

Ah, this is the challenge! This is the challenge that awaits you if you are able to offset the Intervention that is occurring in the world today. The interest in your world will not cease, and attempts to influence you will continue. How would you keep such influences at bay? For free races living in larger neighborhoods of worlds that are not free, often this requires the signing of non-interference contracts, which stipulate generally that the free nations will not participate beyond their boundaries and areas or regions of influence. They will not try to exert or promote their freedom abroad. In exchange for this, other nations agree to stay out of their areas of influence and to not contact them directly.

So various kinds of contracts like this are often made in highly inhabited regions of space, but such contracts are subject to change and reevaluation, and that is why the free nations do not travel beyond their districts or seek to promote freedom abroad. For that would violate their own autonomy and their own insulation from the Greater Community itself.

In areas where there is not a large concentration of nations, free nations will have to maintain their security through military means, aggressively challenging anyone who would come into their vicinity. This is less desirable, of course, but in sparsely populated regions in uncharted territories, this is definitely required. Everyone in the universe is looking for resources. Many in the universe want to have influence over other nations. Even in largely inhabited regions such as this, these desires and these needs continue.

Therefore, it is a tenuous balance that a free nation or a group of free nations must establish in order to keep the Greater Community out of their territories and to prevent the kind of intervention that is occurring in the world today.

Humanity still thinks the universe is a great empty place awaiting exploration, awaiting colonization, with infinite resources there for the taking, if only humanity can establish a sufficient technology to gain access to them. Yet these assumptions all stem from your isolation and your profound ignorance about the nature of life, commerce and interactions in the Greater Community.

We understand this, and we do not condemn you for it, for we too had many of the same assumptions before contact with the Greater Community began for us, before intervention was attempted in our worlds. Since then, we have established greater autonomy, but it must be guarded carefully, both in the physical environment and in the mental environment.

Other nations employ seers who try to see into our worlds, to see what kind of technology we are producing and to see where our power and our weakness reside. We must offset these intrusions in the mental environment with seers of our own, who are guided by Knowledge, who would obstruct this kind of intervention in the mental environment.

This is all a new frontier to you and to human science and to human religion. Power in the mental environment in many ways can be equivalent to power in the physical environment, and the dangers and defenses that must be established here are significant. This is the price of freedom in the universe — constant vigilance, constant care and great responsibility.

~

“You keep mentioning that Knowledge is the most powerful force in the universe. How can that be true when there are so many other powerful forces to deal with?”

Knowledge represents the power to see, to know and to act with certainty. It also represents the power to resist persuasion, deception and influence in the mental environment. The individual or the nation that has this strength has the power to resist intervention and to comprehend the intentions and the activities of other nations who might be threatening to its freedom or existence.

It is the ultimate form of intelligence, you see, and seers who are guided by Knowledge are more powerful than seers who are not. Here you are able to discern the future and future events before they happen, with varying degrees of accuracy. Here you are able to discern the intentions of others and the capabilities of others without the use of technology. Here you can pretend to be weak when in fact you are really strong. Here you can appear to be non-aggressive when in fact you can be incisive in your inquiries. Here you can be well protected and well defended without requiring a great military force or infrastructure. Here you can make wise decisions regarding your relations with other nations even if their intentions are questionable or uncertain. Here you can engage in diplomacy with other nations with far more certainty than you would have otherwise.

It is this power and this Knowledge that humanity will need if it is to gain the strength and commitment to establish greater unity amongst its nations and the wise and sustaining use of the world. This will overcome greed and avarice. This will overcome competition, conflict and war. This will overcome grievance and hatred and inequality.

That is why Knowledge is the greatest power in the universe. It is a power that the Intervention is not using, or it would not be here engaged in the activities it is undertaking. This is the power that will give humanity the power to offset intervention and to prevent future interventions. This is the power to give humanity the stability to establish a new world with far greater equanimity and equality, justice and freedom.

Think upon these things.





---------------------------
ALLIES OF HUMANITY – BOOK 4
---------------------------




4–1: Who We Are and What We Represent


We give greetings. We are the Allies of Humanity here to speak with you once again after a long delay. We are far away from your world now, and we have been away for some time. But there is much we can impart to you that will be of great significance and importance for your future and for the possibility of you growing and becoming a free race in the universe, where true freedom is so very rare.We speak for those free races who live amongst many others who are not free. But we are not here representing their governments. Instead, we were sent by Higher Powers from the spiritual realm to give these Briefings to humanity.

We have come from several nations for this purpose and are united in our cause. You will not know our names nor the names of our worlds, for they must remain hidden. Once you begin to understand the realities of life in the Greater Community in the universe, you will be able to understand why this discretion must be exercised.

You who broadcast everything out into space around you will have to realize that to be free, you must be discreet. This is a great lesson for humanity to learn as it stands at the threshold of a universe full of intelligent life.


We are here to give you counsel and perspective and to correct many of your assumptions or beliefs that could jeopardize your ability to understand your situation and the great challenge you now face from Intervention in your world from beyond by other races who are here to take advantage of your weakness, your divisions, and your superstitions for their own purposes — to establish their precedence in this world without the use of force.

We have spoken of this at great length in our previous Briefings. But now we must tell you about some other things that are important to know about the meaning of freedom in this universe — what it will mean for your world, the great change that it will bring to your understanding, and the greater unity it will require amongst your nations.

For you will not remain a free world if you continue your struggle with one another — your dissensions, your competition, your violence, your wars. Fighting amongst yourselves, you have no idea of the presence of those who are intervening, or the many eyes in your local universe who are watching you, and all the errors of humanity being broadcast out into space for the discreet observer to see — your tribes warring with one another in a beautiful world that is desired by others. And though there are not many other races or nations that are aware of your existence, the challenge is yet very great, very real and growing all the time.

So we must speak of things now that have to do with your future, that have to do with the possibility of humanity becoming a free race in a universe where competition has been carried to greater levels than you understand.

We give this with great respect for humanity because you have kept your religious traditions alive, and the power of Knowledge within the individual is still recognized and honored here, where it has been lost and forgotten or never realized in so many other places. For the great technological nations in your local region of space are largely devoid of religion, spirituality and the higher ethics that you may still hold dear, which we value as well.

You stand at the great turning point of whether you will fall into submission to foreign powers or whether you will rise up from your endless conflicts to establish yourself as a free nation. We have given much wisdom and perspective on this in our previous Briefings. But now we must tell you what freedom means and what it will require of your nations and your peoples.


While worlds are distinct and unique and different in many ways, the requirements of freedom in the universe are the same for all. You must understand these requirements and not neglect them in any way.

For peace amongst your nations is not merely the cessation of war and conflict. It must be a preparation for a greater engagement and a greater set of challenges that your world is facing now and will face increasingly as you go forward.

Your freedom now is to protect the world, to insulate the world from those powers that will all seek to intervene here, both through the physical environment and through the mental environment.

The freedom that will require your nations to be cooperative will also require that there cannot be great dissension, for the influence from the outside, from the Greater Community, will seek to stimulate dissension, as it is doing now. It will seek to weaken the strongest nations by engaging them in endless and intractable conflicts and competition. It will seek to weaken people’s belief in their own governments and institutions, as is occurring now.

The strength of human leadership and institutions must become stronger in the future and more united between nations and across the nations. For what will unite humanity is the challenge of the Greater Community. What will require cooperation will be the threat of Intervention from beyond. What will elevate humanity in its unity and purpose is its emergence into this larger arena of intelligent life.


Freedom here is not the freedom to be chaotic or the freedom to break down into individualistic purpose and pursuits alone. It is the freedom to insulate and protect your world from the greater technological powers that exist around you, who will seek to persuade you and to divide you through subtle means.

For conquest is not allowed in this region of space. We have spoken of this at length before. Yet it must be repeated, for humanity is still very warlike and competitive in its attitude. It will think of Intervention in military terms. But no intervening race or group seeks to destroy the resources of this world or their hope that humanity will become a workforce — compliant and allegiant to them. You must now begin to think in new ways, for influence in the Greater Community is powerful. It is the threshold that is awaiting you now.

Your freedom in the future, should you be able to gain it and maintain it, will limit individual freedom out of necessity. For all the citizens of the world will have to be committed to the protection of the world. It will be fundamental. Though once you begin to see the tentacles of the Intervention, in the world today and in the future, this understanding will grow and must become part of your foundation.

You do not realize you live on a beautiful planet in a universe of barren worlds. Most habitation in worlds is a product of advanced technology, and the worlds of origin of advancing races have largely been despoiled, such as you are despoiling your world now.

It is a Greater Community awareness and understanding that we are advocating here today with you. You cannot think like primitive people, for the universe you are facing is not primitive. You cannot refer to the past only, except to understand that all Intervention is carried out for aggressive purposes. Think not that any race will come here to really help you, for if they establish their appearance here in a visible way, it will be part of a great persuasion.

If you degrade the world continually, you will become so unstable in the world that you will seek help from the outside out of sheer desperation. This is the great danger that you now face.

No race intervening in the world today is here to help humanity. They are competing races here, competing for advantage in this world, a world of great opportunity and wealth. You do not even realize how important it is.

Your freedom will have to be very practical in the future and very united. You will have to be free together, not free apart from each other. You will have to be free in purpose, not free to break that purpose down. You will have to be free to unite, not free to break that unity.

Perhaps this does not look like freedom to you from where you stand at this moment, but in contrast to the reality of most nations in this entire region of space, it is a great freedom, we assure you.

In our Briefings, we will describe what freedom can look like as it is established. The outer reality of the Greater Community will determine to a greater degree how this freedom will be established and must be maintained.

Yet you still live thinking you are in isolation in the universe, that the universe is a big empty space around you. And perhaps you feel that you are special and blessed by the Divine, so special that any race that would come here would seek to help you, to understand you, or to appreciate you. But such is the ignorance of living in isolation, an ignorance that all emerging races in the universe will likely have, to one degree or another.

Alone you think you are unique and special. But when you enter this grand panorama of life, you will see that others will only regard you for their own benefit, and that the few free races in your part of space will be the only ones who will value you for greater reasons and for higher purposes.

We have had to struggle greatly to regain our freedom from Intervention and to sustain it, which has required us to remain very discreet in this larger panorama of life. It has required that we stay out of the great networks of trade and be free of the overarching organizations of trade that determine how races will participate and engage in commerce with one another. For once you enter these networks, your freedom will be lost.

You who seek greater technology from greater powers in the universe must learn this great lesson. Do not accept any technology from those visiting your world. For they will plant the seeds of your future dependence and with these seeds, as they grow, they will gain greater and greater authority over your minds and your world.

We have had to learn these lessons in our respective worlds. And though our worlds are unique and do not actively engage with each other, except on a very limited basis politically, there are Higher Powers in the universe who direct the great Network of the Wise — who engage individuals in different worlds and nations.

We are part of this Network, and that is why we have come to give you great assistance. We have no interest in establishing ourselves in this world, for you are not ready for Contact. You must gain freedom through your own efforts. We can give you wisdom, warning and perspective, but it is you who must earn your present and future freedom and utilize the great understanding we are giving to you.

You have no idea how daunting the universe really is — how many worlds have fallen under foreign domination, worlds in a very similar state of emergence such as your own, and how few have been able to escape this domination.

It is in part the work of the Higher Powers to support this freedom in races that show potential for it — Higher Powers assigned by the Divine to protect Knowledge in the universe — greater wisdom, purpose and meaning.

Otherwise, advancing technological societies end up becoming ever more like one another: secular, rigid, dominating, competing with each other constantly for advantage. They would not value your individual freedom, but only see you as being chaotic and destructive to your world. They do not understand the things that we speak of. They do not know of the Higher Powers. And if they do have an awareness of this, they will seek to suppress the expression of these Powers wherever they can.

This is the reality of life in the universe, the reality of Separation from the Divine Presence and Purpose — Separation under which you live constantly as well. To break the chains of Separation requires unique wisdom, power and strength, which you must cultivate and which must be supported in you from Higher Powers.

When we speak of Higher Powers, we are not speaking of races of beings in the physical dimension, for there are no enlightened races in the universe, really, only small groups of wisdom connected with each other, through both physical and mysterious means. In this way, the Networks of the Wise can communicate through the Unseen Powers, the Angelic Presence, without ever having physical contact, which in so many cases could never occur.

This is humanity’s great challenge, the challenge to its freedom and sovereignty in this world. As we continue, we will talk about the meaning of this freedom, the requirements of this freedom and the great strength that must be given to sustain it amongst so many nations who are not free.

It is a great truth in the universe that the Wise must remain hidden to remain wise. This is the great lesson before you now.




4–2: The Importance of Restraint


You must exercise great restraint in the universe. Do not think you can go out and engage with anyone you find to be interesting, or to travel to other races’ worlds, or that you will find great meeting places where many races come together for recreation or for social purposes, for that surely is not the case.We have been able to watch your films depicting life in the universe. Unfortunately, they are grossly incorrect and dangerously misleading. The reality is very different and very sobering.

You will have to exercise great restraint. If you are determined to have advanced technology from other races, they will gain control of you and your world in time. This must be restrained.

If you seek to travel or to seize territory in other places beyond this solar system, you will face great opposition and conflict. You must restrain yourself from seeking these things.


You will not be able to go beyond this solar system to seek another world like your own should you despoil it too greatly, for such worlds are rare and are owned and guarded by others far more powerful than you. You must restrain yourself in wanting or expecting these things.

If you think that there are other worlds waiting for your exploration should you destroy this one through war or degradation, you will find that you have not the power or the influence in the Greater Community to gain access to them nor a means of reaching them, given your current state of technological development. You must restrain yourself from thinking these things — thinking that another world will be there for the taking, for that will not be the case.

You may think you can despoil your world and that technology will save you from the consequences, but your world will undermine human civilization if you do this and weaken you to the point where you will not be able to resist foreign intervention or the promises of peace, power and technology, which even today are being presented to leaders of your nations and certain leaders of your religious institutions.


You must restrain yourself from thinking you can despoil this world and have any hope of freedom and sovereignty in the universe or think that you can carry on war or competition, destructive competition, for the advantage of your nation. For this will only lead to greater weakness in the human family — fracturing the human family even more, destroying even further the possibility for future cooperation, which will be so necessary for your future and well-being.

You must restrain these notions that war is advantageous for you, that it will gain you profit or advantage here, for it will only sow the seeds of your demise and empower those races who seek to establish themselves here as overlords of this world.

Turn your eyes to the heavens. Your future and your destiny are there. Look up in the sky at night and know that it is full of intelligent life. While there are countless barren and uninhabitable worlds there, the number of races in your local universe in this sector, which is a small region of space, is tremendous. For you live in a very well inhabited part of the galaxy, where rules of engagement have been long established and where war has been suppressed. This is both an advantage and a disadvantage for you. As we have spoken of in our previous Briefings, you are protected from outright conquest, but the possibility and the reality of intervention and persuasion are tremendous.

You will have to gain greater skill here and preparation: awareness, determination, skill, restraint. For you now, the universe is merely the background to your great problems on Earth. But the reality of this universe is the greater force driving your world and your evolution. It is driving you because of the great challenge it presents, and the great opportunity and requirement for unity and cooperation that it will foster if it can be seen and known and responded to.

Never before has Intervention of this nature occurred in the world, for you were still too primitive and your technology still too undeveloped for you to be viable candidates for foreign control and persuasion. Though the world has been visited many times over the course of your long history, Intervention of this kind has never really been attempted.

But now you have created international communication, planetary commerce, planetary trade. You have created a basic infrastructure that others can use and profit from. This, plus the awareness that humanity may grow too strong for Intervention, has generated the Intervention in your world today, accelerated since the last great world conflict, and now accelerating in many different areas of your life.

It is a challenge, if seen correctly, that will enable you to rise above conflict and constant dissension within your world. For the resources of every nation must be united to protect this world out of sheer necessity.

Your understanding of the universe must change and become realistic. Your recognition of your precarious situation must be recognized and become foundational for you.

You must protect the environment of this world — its climate, its resources — or you will fall into poverty and despair on a level never seen before in this world. Yet such things have happened countless times in the universe, with inevitable and predictable results.

Our cultures are old enough to have a history of local events in this part of the galaxy. We have been able to see and know things that you cannot yet see or know directly. We can only give you this wisdom, this greater perspective. Do not think that it is merely a perspective, for it is the truth of your reality. It is what is coming. It is what is here already.




4–3: Freedom in the Universe


Now we will give you a perspective on what freedom looks like once it is established. To be free, a world has to have a united government. It may have representatives from different groups and regions of a world, but it must be a united government. It cannot be a patchwork of warring tribes or even great nations, for that will only invite intervention and manipulation.The nations that are free foster individual creativity and the value of Knowledge within the individual, but this Knowledge has to be directed where it can serve the greater interests of the world and not merely the preoccupations of the individual. True talent here is highly recognized and valued, but it must be directed. It is not merely the providence of the individual. It is part of the wealth of the nation.

Unlike unfree nations where people’s lives are simply catalogued and directed, where individual talent is rarely utilized, where stature in society is based upon family lineage or regional needs alone, in the free nations the individual is valued, and their skills and their wisdom are cultivated because this wisdom and skill are needed for the stability and well-being of the world. They are sent to serve where they can be of the greatest benefit. But it is based upon the need of the whole, not merely the desires of the individual.

A world of errant individuals will never be able to establish freedom in the Greater Community. Here individuality must serve, but it serves according to the individual, and this is one of the things that distinguishes a free nation from a nation that is not free.

In a free nation, dissension is tolerated but only to a certain point. If there is constant rebellion, the nation can never be stable; it can never assume a greater mantle of freedom to even protect the freedoms that it offers its citizens. It must have this stability and this security from the outside.

You do not yet realize you are living in the Greater Community and are subject to its influences, so perhaps this seems very different to you from where you stand at this moment. But it is something you must begin to understand and to entertain. To be a united force, there must be an understanding of the great need that requires this freedom and a willingness to participate and even to sacrifice certain personal freedoms for its sake.


The freedom that you now enjoy is largely only to serve the whims or the desires of the individual, but in the Greater Community this is not what freedom means.

Free societies must maintain their native resources as much as possible and only engage in commerce with other free nations for essential things. Therefore, the plundering of their worlds cannot happen, cannot be allowed if there is to be any stability and security going forward.

There must be great restraint here. For wisdom always requires great restraint. And freedom always means you must be aware of those things you are really not free to do.


It is the freedom of the world. It is the freedom of the whole nation of the world that secures the rights of individuals in the Greater Community. But these rights will be limited out of necessity.

For free nations to remain free, they must be able to thwart or resist all the temptations that will be placed upon them, especially if their worlds are seen to be valuable to others. Here you must see that freedom is seen as a great threat to the unfree nations. They are afraid the freedoms that the free nations have may influence their own populations in some way, leading to rebellion, discontent and dissension.

Such things as art and music and dance that you enjoy today would be seen as a great threat to the cultures that are not free. Individual freedoms that the free nation can give its citizens would be seen as a threat to those nations that are not free.

As a consequence, free nations do not broadcast out into the universe. They do not reveal what life is like in their worlds, if they can avoid it. They do not engage in larger networks of trade, which are always very controlling and manipulative and make one’s own world vulnerable to the powers of persuasion on a far greater scale.


Free nations must be largely self-sufficient here. They must be very united. And they must be very discreet. These are the three great requirements of freedom in the universe. And you cannot escape them. There are no exceptions here.

The free nations, being discreet, do not travel around the universe seeking to plant their flags or to exert their influence or seek to intervene in the affairs of others. They may promote freedom and responsibility, as we are doing through these Briefings, but they do not intervene. For to intervene is to transgress one’s own discretion. To intervene is to make yourself known in the larger universe, and free nations do not want to do this. Their insulation is critical to their unique accomplishments.

In the free nations, the power of Knowledge in the individual is valued and supported, even within the restraints of their society. In unfree nations, this is either unknown or brutally suppressed. And the gatherings of the Wise in unfree nations must occur in great secrecy in order to survive, which is often the case.

People of your world think the universe must be better than the world itself — more elevated, more free, more spiritual, more ethical — to be sought, to be encouraged, to be invited into this world. This is perhaps the normal expectation of races living in isolation. Such was the same in our worlds until our emergence into the Greater Community began and we had to face Intervention.

We are telling you these things because you must understand what the journey of freedom really is about. It is not about individual happiness. It is about the freedom of your race. It is not about individual pursuits or indulgences. It is about the stability and security of your world. Freedom here is not a right in the universe. It is a great privilege and a great accomplishment that must be earned earnestly and consistently and protected against all challenges.

You cannot have a romantic view of life in the universe if you hope to survive within it. Such is the great sobriety that wisdom brings. Do not have fanciful notions about the value of Contact or what other races can teach you about freedom through their intervention in your world, for that is a fatal error, and a tragic one at that.

We know, through the Networks of the Wise, how much has been given to this world to sustain and support the threads of freedom and wisdom that still exist here. Much has been invested in your world for this purpose. Even as you escalate and progress in your technological development, there is great emphasis on your world for its potential here, its potential to be a free race in the universe, a potential that you must seize upon and develop through your own will and cooperation with one another.

We cannot give you this freedom, and there is no other race in the universe who can give you this freedom, nor come here and establish it for you. Any race that promises this is truly deceiving you and is here for other purposes, their own purposes.

It is, however, to our benefit to have another free race within this sector of space. We would welcome that, though we seek no formal relations. You are not ready for formal relations. And you may not be ready for a long time to come. You are not strong enough. You are not united enough. You are not mature enough, still indulging yourself in conflict and war and destructive competition.

If we can support the emergence of Knowledge in worlds such as yours, we will do that according to the dictates of the Divine, through the Networks of Knowledge, not through the networks of governments. Even our own governments do not know what we are doing here. Though they would support it in theory, it is not wise for them to have this knowledge, for then they would have to be responsible for our actions.

For in most cases, free nations have had to make non-intervention agreements with the larger nations around them in order to keep these larger nations out of the free nations’ sphere and activities. We are contravening this in our small presence in service to your world. For we are governed by Higher Powers, of which you know little about, but of which you must become educated, and we will speak of this next.




4–4: Higher Powers


There are two realities in the universe; one overlaps the other. The first and most primary in your experience is the reality of Separation and evolutionary change, planetary change — from primitive life, primitive social organizations, early nations, larger nations, world nations and finally emergence into a Greater Community of larger nations.Overlapping this is the work of the Divine throughout the universe, carried out by the Higher Powers, the Angelic Forces that oversee all races, even in the unfree nations, looking for opportunities to cultivate Knowledge in individuals who are free enough and able enough to respond. This creates a great Network of the Wise, which then can support the emergence of free nations, who still have the potential for this great accomplishment.

In the physical universe, there are only the forces that were set in motion at the beginning of time. There is no Divine Plan organizing everything, controlling everything, for the physical universe is largely chaotic and governed by celestial forces, geologic forces and, within worlds where life has been able to take hold, biological forces. That was all set in motion at the beginning of time by the Divine, and it is running itself now.

The Divine Intervention is through the Higher Powers, through the Networks of the Wise and through nations that have been able to keep individual awareness and Knowledge alive, despite all of the hazards and conflict that usually exist in a world’s evolution and social development.


As we have said, there are no enlightened races in the universe that we are aware of, but there are free races, and within free races, the Wise may guide their nations. They would be more plentiful than they would ever be in nations that are not free.

The Divine has outposts in many, many places. And there are groups of the Wise working in many, many places, even in great secrecy. Free nations allow these groups to resurface and become effective in society. But the truly Wise are individuals networked in small groups, networked within their own nation or networked between nations, connected through the Higher Powers.

So do not think that there is an enlightened race who is going to come and enlighten humanity, or that humanity itself is going to become an enlightened race. That is far beyond its capabilities. But to be a free race where Knowledge can be fostered and supported openly, that is the great achievement. That is the great challenge and requirement placed before you now.


There are two kinds of freedom. There is practical freedom to live your life without overdue restraint or domination, practical freedom to live with stability and security, without the constant threat of war or overbearing corruption. This is the foundational freedom, and it is so very important. It is the first thing that must be established.

Then there is the greater spiritual freedom of the individual to begin their return to the Divine and to gain access to the deeper Knowledge that God has created in all individuals, in all races in the universe who are living in Separation in physical reality.

This greater freedom is the calling of individuals, and it is limited by the fundamental freedoms they may have in their respective worlds and cultures. But the greater freedom is the ultimate freedom because the Power of Heaven can move through these individuals in service to others and, through the great Networks of the Wise, foster freedom and Knowledge in the entire Greater Community.


You must understand that the Work of the Divine in your world is connected to the Work of the Divine in all worlds. There is no special plan for your world, which is but a tiny place in a greater universe. God’s Plan is unified and well established. And Knowledge lives within you as an individual, which is how you connect with the Divine Presence and Power and how you begin to gain your inner freedom, even beyond the restraints of your outer environment.

Wherever the fundamental freedom can be built and established and maintained over time represents a greater possibility for the higher freedom to be fostered and supported, and the greater freedom that it will have in its expression in that world, in that nation, in that culture. For freedom in the universe is not the freedom to further your Separation. It is the freedom to return to your Source and to be of service in this physical reality.

As you can see here, even your most fundamental notions of peace, freedom and responsibility must now be redefined within a larger context, or you will continue to think that your peace and your freedom and your responsibility are for yourself alone, or for your family alone. This is not what these things mean in the Greater Community, and these will not be effective or even meaningful in the world you are now beginning to enter, where environmental degradation, the loss of food production and the changing climate of your world will make life much more difficult, requiring greater participation and cooperation if you are to succeed.

Even those things that threaten you from the outside, where they can undermine you here in this world, can foster greater freedom in the truest sense if this opportunity is recognized and claimed by enough people. The greater the challenge, the greater the opportunity.

For right now humanity is far too weak, far too divided, far too disorganized to ever be able to sustain itself as a free and sovereign race in the universe. What will build this strength, this cooperation, this freedom and this responsibility are the great challenges facing you now: the challenge of degradation and collapse from within and the challenge of Intervention and subjugation from without. Only these great and overbearing challenges will generate the requirement for freedom, strength and responsibility that we speak of here.

Not everyone will be able to respond to this challenge, but even if a small minority of people in your world can do this, it can lead to a greater outcome. The world is governed by small numbers of people, for better or worse. In this case, a small number of people could save the entire human race from collapse and disintegration.

Yes, it is a tremendous challenge. Yes, it seems to be unfair to your understanding. It even seems cruel to your understanding. But this is what it means to grow up in the universe: to become a mature race and not an adolescent race that fights and struggles amongst itself for privilege and wealth and opportunity.

We have had to grow up under the pain and challenge of Intervention and the degradation of our worlds. It is part of life, becoming an adult, becoming responsible, not only for oneself but for the well-being of one’s world — driven now by necessity, driven now by challenge, driven now by great threat. All these things are the foundation for the strength, the wisdom, the cooperation that you will need for the great change that is coming for the world.

We therefore do not bring peace, as you think of it. We bring challenge. We bring responsibility. We bring clarity. We bring wisdom. We bring strength. We bring the calling for all these things.

If you could but see or have a sense for where your life is heading and the degree of Intervention in your world today, it will either defeat you or you will rise to meet it. Such is the unseen opportunity here.

God knows this is the greatest threshold for the human family, the greatest threshold you have ever faced and may ever face — a declining world and emergence into the Greater Community, which usually accompany each other. God has sent a New Message into the world. We know of this. That is part of what has called us here to encourage the human family. We will speak of this next, for it is fundamental to your success and to your freedom.




4–5: The Great Coordination


We are aware that a great Revelation is being sent to the world. Though we have not been given this Revelation ourselves, we are connected to it. It is because God has asked us to do this through the Networks of the Wise, to take this promising world of yours and give it wisdom, encouragement, strength and purpose that it must have now to overcome its tendencies and to prepare for its challenging future.As we were aided in gaining our freedom in our own worlds, at different times and different situations, it is incumbent upon us to aid you in a similar manner, for this is one of the ways that wisdom and strength are shared in the universe. It is a long lineage. We know not of its ancient history, yet we are part of its expression.

Our coming to you with these Briefings is connected to this Revelation for the world. So fortunate you are to have a Revelation from God for the world. There are so few worlds in the universe where this could ever take place in any kind of public way. In a free nation, it is possible and does occur, but it is still very rare.

We do not know of all that this Revelation will speak of, but we do know that it is part of your preparation for the things that we speak of. We know that it is a gift of strength and empowerment for humanity.

Yet we are called to bear witness to the realities of life in the universe and the meaning of the things that we speak of here, things of the utmost importance to you and to your future. It is all part of a Greater Coordination to bring to humanity this great promise and great assistance.

We are far from your world now, so we cannot witness what is occurring. Yet we are still part of this Greater Coordination. This is what we are committed to in our small group, those of us who still remain.

We understand that there is a Messenger for this great Revelation, and it is to this Messenger we were directed to send the Briefings from the Allies of Humanity. Our contact with him was made possible by the Higher Powers, contact made in such a way that it could not be interfered with or traced by any technological means.

It is part of the way the Divine works in the universe to foster wisdom, freedom and Knowledge wherever that is possible and to whatever extent it is possible. We can only pray, in the way that we pray, that this great Revelation may meet and reach enough people in your world to have its full benefit and impact.


This fulfills our task, which is to speak of these things that we speak of and to bring you Wisdom and Knowledge from the universe that we have had to learn through great trial and great necessity.

We understand this will be very confusing to many people, all these things we speak of here now. And we did not speak of the Revelation from God before because we felt it would be too much for people to try to comprehend, along with everything we are charged with expressing, the wisdom we are charged to give to you.

But now that we are far away, we can speak of other matters. It is necessary that we be a witness to this, to this Revelation from the Divine that you are so fortunate to have in your midst. If only you could see how fortunate you are, given what freedom you have today, which has been the product of so much human giving and sacrifice already. If you could understand how rare an event this is, your gratitude would be overflowing, and you would understand its great importance.

We must again speak of the reality of freedom from where we stand and what we know, for we are asked to bear witness to these things from our experience, not merely from our ideology or the way that we think of these things. We know that freedom is not a right in the universe. It is a rare and precious thing. It must be established and secured with the greatest determination.


We have earned the freedom to serve in this way, to be able to serve another race in this way — in a way that the people of your world can hear, that it can be made available as testimony. How rare this is indeed.

We have been assisted in this way once we were able to secure our freedom in our nations, for the Greater Powers have been able to serve us directly. For the development of freedom and the stability of freedom is an ongoing challenge that requires great maturity, wisdom and restraint. Though we are not enlightened societies as you would think of them perhaps, we are free enough to have this opportunity and to be served in this way.

But humanity does not yet have this freedom, even at present, for a new Revelation for your world will be greatly resisted and contested. It is the evolution of your race as a whole that makes this so.

Yet as you stand at the threshold of life in the universe, you could not have a greater advantage or a greater strength being given to you. For as we have said repeatedly, no race will come and establish freedom for you. No race will come and elevate your technology for you. No race will come and manage your world for you. Not for you. This is the truth that must be recognized, or you will not understand what you are facing.


It is so rare that one race can serve another in the ways that we are doing here, for usually the avenues of support are very secretive, very subtle, beyond the surveillance of governments. It is a very precious thing that we speak of.

Regarding free societies, there is something else we must tell you. The free societies recognize the limits of beneficial technology. Should you take technology too far, beyond your basic needs, beyond the basic benefits to your society, you draw other powers to you. Your insulation in the universe begins to diminish. Now you are left with powers that are very difficult to conceal.

For even though our races are free in the ways that we have spoken of, there are still other eyes watching us at all times. Should we demonstrate any extraordinary abilities or extraordinary technology, it will invite greater and greater scrutiny and persuasion. Others will seek to gain it from us by whatever means, short of outright conquest. That is why the powers we might have must be expressed very subtly, even kept out of the public view amongst the Wise who guide our worlds.

This is the truth of life in the universe that greater power, greater strength and its demonstrations must be hidden if you seek to have the opportunity for freedom and self-determination.

There are seers in other nations who try to see into our affairs, who try to discern what we are doing, what we have, our strengths and our weaknesses. We can only counteract this to a certain degree. For once the eyes of the universe are set upon you, they will continue to watch. Either through technological means or by more subtle means, this would be the case.

So the Wise that govern our worlds do not share all the things they know with the public, for the public is not strong enough to maintain this with discretion. That is too much to ask of a whole race. You who think freedom is the freedom to know everything have no idea what you are thinking or the meaning of this amongst the presence of greater forces.

Therefore, understand that beyond meeting the real authentic needs of a race, technology should not go any further. It gives you powers you cannot use and must hide. It opens discernment from the outside and invites intervention and manipulation and ever-greater scrutiny. Therefore, do not think that endlessly developing technology is a worthy and noble pursuit. It is only beneficial in certain ways, to a certain point. Beyond this, it creates danger and hazard.

Should you have a power of insight or a power of technology that other nations do not have, they will seek it from you. This is why the Wise must remain hidden, a great and enduring truth in the universe.

With power comes this responsibility, this discretion, this discernment, this caution, this being very careful with one’s mind and action and thought in light of their impact upon others and what they may invite from the outside. We in our group were all students of this great Teaching, which you now have an opportunity to learn out of sheer necessity.

Our free nations must be preoccupied with stability and security, for free nations do not co-exist well with large nations that are not free, larger nations that are more powerful technologically and militarily. We must guard not only our borders but our thoughts. This is the burden of the Wise in all places.

We understand that the New Revelation for the world can teach people these things and give this to the human family. If this is true, then that is a very great sign.

It is possible that there may be those amongst you who become truly wise with this. Your task is to secure the freedom of your people and your world, to keep Knowledge alive in your world, to keep wisdom alive in your world, where it will always seem to be under threat and attacked by others who want to use everything for personal power and benefit. It is a truth in your world as much as it is a truth in the Greater Community. Everything we are telling you here today is a truth in your world, for it is a truth everywhere. It is a truth in the realm of Separation.

We bring with this great and sober teaching encouragement, for the human family has great potential. The awareness of the Divine, and the power of Knowledge in the individual, has not been obliterated in your world. It has not been forgotten. It is still valued by many, and in some parts of your world, it is still practiced by many. This is a great sign in the universe, where very few advancing races have this kind of potential.

We know that Knowledge within you can respond to these things and resonate because it is a greater realm of truth, because within your life you were meant to be part of the Greater Coordination as well. Though it seems like a distant possibility to you now, perhaps, it is foundational to who you are and why you are in the world at this time, for it alone holds the strength and the vision and the resonance that can enable you to respond and to perceive your situation correctly and beneficially. It will call you out of an ordinary and disappointing life into a far greater realm of service and meaning, as it has done for us.

We cannot yet return to our home worlds until our mission is complete. It has taken many years for this to take place, even so far. There have been many challenges and setbacks. We have lost members of our group. We have had to escape to distant and safe havens. For the Intervention that is participating in your world became aware of us after our first set of Briefings was delivered, and their search for us began. We do not think they were expecting our presence and surely would be challenged and threatened by our message.

Yet our mission is not yet complete, for though we are no longer in your vicinity, there is Wisdom from the universe we can still provide for you. You need this Wisdom now, and you will need it ever increasingly as you go forward.




4–6: The Networks of the Wise


Our purpose is not religion, for religion has many faces in the universe. There are many religions that we have heard of and a few we have encountered indirectly beyond our own shores.It is not our purpose, you see, for we are guided by the Higher Powers, which you would consider to be the Angelic Assembly. Because our worlds are relatively free in the universe, our religions reflect the things that we study for the benefit of our races and for the well-being of our worlds. But what we ourselves study is of a greater nature. It is of the Coordination of the Wise, connected with Higher Powers beyond the physical realm.

Therefore, we are not here to represent the religions of our world, for we are functioning very independently of them. We are not here to represent the races of our world, as if we were ambassadors of some kind, for we are here on a very different kind of errand and mission. We are not here to establish formal relations between our nations and your nation because it is way too soon for anything like that to be established. And that is really not our ultimate goal. For we have been directed for a greater purpose than this.

Religion in the universe is so often an emblem of the governing powers, if it exists at all. We feel it is quite rare that greater spiritual truth exists in any race. We find it almost unimaginable that there could be an enlightened race, for that is too much to expect of those living in the physical reality.


But the Wise have many associates and a greater Network, acting independently of governments and large commercial institutions and great trading networks. These things may be useful to us, but for the most part, we function beyond them. You will find the Wise in many places, but usually hidden, functioning in deep secrecy. For to have such greater power in the universe would, in most cases, seem threatening to the ruling powers of any world, unless they be very free in the ways that we speak of here today.

To be governed by Higher Powers from afar in service to the Divine can only be the providence of very select individuals, individuals not just selected because they have great stature in their worlds. No, it is of a different nature than this.

The Networks of the Wise are chosen from a greater history of individuals, a greater destiny that they have. It is a difficult thing because to have such a great destiny, particularly in a world that is not free, represents a very arduous task, a very dangerous task, a task that requires tremendous restraint and discretion and discernment.

Do not think of this as some joyful journey that you hope to be selected to take, for in the universe at large, it is a daunting task and a great responsibility. And even should you meet the requirements over time and be chosen for this kind of role, you would have to be connected with other individuals whom you would never meet, even within your own world per se, and within other worlds as well.

You would have to wait for them for long periods of time for certain situations to emerge and to become fruitful and appropriate for your work. So this would require immense patience as well. That is why we can be so patient with the human family, for we have had to develop this great patience, even with one another in the Great Coordination.


Our mission is not yet complete. When it is, we will return to our worlds, if we can survive this process. When this could happen we cannot tell, but we are being held as a vital resource for the human family — to be called upon when needed, to bear witness to life in the universe as we know it and have experienced it, and the greater truths that we have had to learn and that our races have had to learn — things that the human family cannot see or know without this testimony.

It is wisest for you now to simply have an open mind and set aside the kind of cultural beliefs there may be regarding life beyond your world, to not be influenced by others’ opinions, or the works of your governments, or the fantasies and speculation that exist around this great and important subject.


The human family, without even knowing it, is part of a Greater Coordination. It is something only the Wise can fully understand. And even here their comprehension of this great Network must remain incomplete. For what individual can know of a Network so vast, so complicated and coordinated from Higher and Greater Powers, subject to so many circumstances and changing conditions that it is beyond the capacity of any individual, or even group, to fully realize? But to know you are part of this Coordination, to carry out your duties as part of this Coordination, that is the mountain you must climb to learn of these things sufficiently.

We speak of things now in service to the Revelation that is being given to the world, and its teaching about life in the universe in particular. For you must have testimony from the universe itself, and not from one race or individual alone, but from a greater Network representing countless races that function beyond the reach of governments and commerce; beyond the reach of ambitious individuals and groups and nations; beyond all of the corruption and manipulation that exist in this region of space, which is considerable and complicated and dangerous.


We bring to you the reality of life in the universe as we see it and have known it. It is not simply our understanding, however, that we present to you here. It is the wisdom of the Networks of the Wise, who share their wisdom with one another through the Higher Powers. In this way, Heaven has its agents on the ground — here, there, everywhere, hidden, small groups and sometimes isolated individuals, but very well connected so that the wisdom that we provide can not only represent our individual experience or understanding, but the wisdom of the Wise throughout this part of the universe.

There is no race that could understand the meaning of life fully in this universe, or understand fully that all beings living in the physical reality are living in a state of Separation from the Divine.

The Revelation for your world now, and the Messenger sent for this purpose, can explain these things to you, for you need a human representative to do this for you. He too is part of the Greater Coordination, as is his family. They have been sent here as the seeds of the Greater Coordination in the world, not only to meet the great challenge of Intervention and the great challenges that humanity is facing, but also to accompany humanity’s emergence into the Greater Community and to build this sacred bond here.


For if humanity is to ever attain real freedom in the universe, or be able to maintain this freedom and to attain stability in this world with your environment, you will need this Greater Coordination here to maintain a higher level of Knowledge and, if possible, even to advise your future leaders. For in a free nation, what leader would not want to have access to such great wisdom without being part of the Network itself? For those in political power are rarely involved in the great Networks because they are too heavily controlled and influenced by their governments.

Therefore, do not think that the notable people in your world are part of this greater Network. They are not free. They are not able to function at this level. But those who are part of these Networks can advise them into the future. And such advice in a free nation would be critically important because now you have access to wisdom from the whole universe, not just from local regions, not just from individual perceptions, not just from one nation’s own history and limited awareness.

We say these things to you so that you may understand more completely who we are and why we are here and what we serve. We hope this will dispel any notion that we are here representing political powers or economic powers or any power associated with the Intervention. We are not here to represent other governments, other worlds.


Even the free nations cannot intervene in your world, and would not, for this would contravene their non-intervention agreements in the universe, which most free nations must establish to have autonomy in this larger arena of life.

It is important, because you are an emerging race, that you may know of the great Networks. Even though the Intervention may hear this information, they cannot gain access to these great Networks. Only the great Networks that are free of the machinations of physical life and governance could have such freedom in the universe.

That is why any individual group in the Network will only have a partial understanding so that even if they were to fail or to be overtaken by other powers, they could not betray the entirety of the Network.

That is why perhaps you, who are hearing this and receiving this message, must come to understand that ever-greater wisdom, ever-greater awareness, is not the goal. Beyond the functionality of your true role and purpose, Heaven will not give you this because it would make others far too vulnerable to your mistakes. Great care is brought here in the development of individuals and the assignment of roles.

As we have watched your world when we were in its proximity, there are others who watch over us to make sure we do not err. For all beings in the universe are fallible and prone to error. Such is the condition of living in Separation in physical form. We are in physical form. We are sentient beings from several worlds. Therefore, the Higher Powers watch over us far more carefully than they would over other individuals.

But we still can falter. We still can be overtaken by other powers who seek to gain access to us or to destroy us or who perceive us as a threat. That is why we are not in your world, walking your world, you see, because there are powers within your world who would perceive us as a threat, most assuredly — threatening their political power or their religious position, for we represent a Greater Authority in life.

We are not mere servants. We are emissaries of this Greater Authority. But our mission here is very specific, as we have stated in our Briefings. We understand the limits of these responsibilities, which in and of themselves are great enough to challenge us continuously.

Therefore, it is important for you to understand that there are two levels of governance in the universe. There is the governance of political and religious powers and economic powers, which seem to predominate everywhere and must even be strong in free worlds. This is the image of the universe that your senses report.

But there is a greater level of governance and influence that speaks to the deepest part of you, which we call Knowledge, or the Septa Varne. This greater influence and power speaks to this within you and calls certain individuals into higher levels of service in their respective worlds. And those who can succeed in this long preparation will become linked to this Greater Coordination of the Divine, whose Will and Purpose is to establish freedom and wisdom and the power of Knowledge everywhere, for its potential exists in all sentient beings in all worlds throughout the universe.

Though we serve a specific function to alert and help prepare humanity for its emergence into this Greater Community of life, we also represent this Greater Authority and influence, and speak, if we can, to the emergence of Knowledge in the individual as we have done, in support of the great Revelation that the Divine has sent to the world — a rare and remarkable event in this part of the universe. For how few races in this part of the universe could receive in public a New Revelation from God. You have no idea how fortunate you are to be in this position, or how rare it is in a universe of oppressed nations and strict governments.

You who seem fascinated and in love with technology do not yet realize its great hazards and the risk it poses to your freedom, individually and as a whole world. That is why we have said in the Briefings not to receive technology from other races, for this plants the seed of their control in your world — so that they will control your world more than you, and you will become dependent upon their technology.

Do not think that great technology in the universe represents spiritual power in any way. This is entirely false. Do not think this represents real spiritual power in your own world, for the very same reasons we speak of. We must echo this Wisdom that we are sure is part of the great Revelation being given to the world.

There must be great sobriety in entering this universe. It is the greatest threshold that any one world can undergo. It has great hazards and can have great promise, depending on what is fostered in that world and the degree to which the deeper Knowledge has been cultivated and kept alive there.

Humanity is seen to have great promise in this regard, but there are great forces in your world that work against this and have always worked against this and there is the great vulnerability for humanity to the universe — to its influences, to its seductions, to its promises of peace and power, to its offerings of technology to a more primitive and yet more spiritually oriented race such as your own.

Therefore, understand that the true Allies of Humanity are only in part representatives of the free nations. Yet its full meaning indicates that it is the Network of the Wise that is your greatest ally and asset, and those who can represent this in reality, for they will be free of the corruption of any world. They do not have technological power. They use technology to serve their ends, but that is not their force. That is not their strength. That is not their banner. For they have no banner, being largely invisible to your eyes.

Humanity’s true Allies, then, are the Wise in all worlds and the few who are Wise in your world who will foster the power of Knowledge. But your greatest ally is the Unseen Ones, the Higher Powers, what you would think of as the Angelic, who are now bringing a New Revelation from the Divine into the world to prepare humanity for the Greater Community, to provide the foundation for true unity and greater freedom in your world.

We have been called into service and coordination with the presentation of this great Revelation. Though it has not been given to us specifically, we know of its purpose and its intent, and we echo its Wisdom most assuredly. But what must be taught for you within your world must come from within your world. And what must be taught to you from beyond the world must come from beyond the world. It is all part of this great Revelation for humanity.

Therefore, we ask that you think of us in this greater way even though it may be hard to understand or to conceive of. It is so important for you to separate and distinguish the Divine Powers at work in the universe from the political powers that exert themselves everywhere.

Never confuse these two, or you will be open to great seduction and manipulation. Never think that another nation who arrives on your shores is spiritually inclined or represents the Networks of the Wise, for that would be the ultimate form of seduction for your people. And though the Intervention will try to promote this idea, being aware of your predispositions and your vulnerabilities, you must not succumb to such persuasions.

Never think that those who seem to have amazing technology are in any way elevated above you in their ethics or morality or spirituality. You have seen the truth of this in your own world this past century, most assuredly, that greater technology does not represent greater truth, greater meaning or greater purpose.

There is so much that must be distinguished and discerned here for you to understand our message, our purpose and our reality. There are so many ideas and beliefs that must be set aside consciously to be able to see these things with any degree of clarity. It is a challenge in your world and in all worlds.

How few in the universe have the freedom to see without the overwhelming influence of their nations and cultures and religions, if they have a religion. It is a rare and beautiful thing, and the potential for this exists within each person in the world, within you and others because Knowledge has been kept alive here through the great efforts of many servants of the Divine, operating at different levels, at great sacrifice of individuals, great courage, great integrity — things which seem rare, but are still present enough in your world to give your race as a whole a greater promise and recognition amongst the Wise.

May our gifts to you then resonate deeply. And may you recognize the requirements and the restraint necessary in order to see a Greater Reality that lives within your midst at all times and throughout the universe.

